The City of Stars initiative of Polokwane Municipality and Polokwane Tourism Association (PTA) culminated in a stylish gala event at Peter Mokaba Stadium where awards were made last Thursday evening.
The objective of the City of Stars initiative was to identify and recognise businesses or individuals that promoted the image of the city as a destination of choice for tourists but also rendered exceptional services to the public at large.
To find nominees was a task that was easily accomplished. The challenge however came when an independent panel of judges had to select the top three in each category and an independent auditing company together with Limpopo Department of Economic Development, Environment and Tourism identified the 14 final winners from the 88 finalists.
Awards were made to the Best Receptionist, Best Waiter, Best Restaurant Manager, Best Chef and Best Therapist. Awards were also made in the Best Maintenance, Best Fast Food Outlet and Best Housekeeping categories.
The Community Builder of the Year and the Chairman’s Awards for Hospitality and Community Development and the Excellence in Service Award were presented.
In congratulating the finalists and the ultimate winners, Chairperson of PTA, Gerhard Franken said that all the finalists were actually winners and encouraged them to carry on with their good work and take part again next year.
“You are the stars of the city and we are proud of you,” Franken said and added that they will all take part in the ‘I am Polokwane’ campaign that will continue next year.
Story and photos: BARRY VILJOEN
>>barryv.observer@gmail.com
Piet Thaba from Limpopo Guest Manor, Best Receptionist.
Rahamah Mawewe from AmbianceRestaurant, Best Waiter.
Alida Combrinkfrom Da-Ga-Boys,Best RestaurantManager.
Paul Wessels, owner of Simply Pizza, with the award for the Best Fast Food Outlet.
Thabitha Dikgaleof AmbianceRestaurant was the Best Chef.
Thabo Rafuthu, General Manager of Park Inn by Radisson, with the award for Best Maintenance.
Conny Mankufrom TshoseletsoSpa is the BestTherapist.
Saartjie du Toit of Polokwane Nasorgsentrum, the winner of the Community Builder of the Year award.
The Chairperson’s Award for Hospitality and Community Development belongs to Ruth Mamaregane.
Emichen Motimele, housekeeper of Park Inn by Radisson, with the award for Best Housekeeping.
Lwandzile Kekanawon the Chairperson’s Excellence in Service Award.
