Polokwane City Football Club Head Coach Bernard Molekwa said the team will forever treasure the experience gained in the Telkom Knockout Tournament despite being eliminated by Bloemfontein Celtic Football Club, who beat them 4-3 on penalties during the semi-final match of the tourney at Peter Mokaba Stadium last Sunday.
It was the club’s first semi-final experience in the tournament since being promoted to the elite league five years ago.
“We would have loved to go all the way to the finals and eventually win the tournament but it was not to be. Yet it was another milestone for the team after reaching the top 8 last season in the Premier Soccer League (PSL). Credit should go to the players for their efforts. They did well in the tournament and showed character. The tournament made us discover certain things about ourselves, we are more united and stronger. It also helped us to grow the Polokwane City Football Club brand and we are happy to have been part of it,” Molekwa said.
He also mentioned that their focus was to improve their position in the PSL.
The club is currently in the 12th position of the league with 10 points after 10 matches. “We did not start the season very well and we are aware of our position. We want to collect more points and least be in the top 8 bracket before the Christmas break,” Molekwa said.
In the last three remaining fixtures before the Christmas break they face the embattled Platinum Stars, Bidvest Wits and Chippa United. “Those are not easy matches, Platinum Stars and Bidvest Wits are in the relegation zone and they would want to get out of that zone immediately so we are expecting tough matches but we will give our all,” added Molekwa.
Story and photos: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com
Bloemfontein Celtic Football Club midfielder Deon Hotto chases the ball under the watchful eye of Polokwane City Football Club striker, Walter Musona.
Polokwane City Football Club striker Rendani Ndou (orange) is closely watched by Bloemfontein Celtic Football midfielder, Alfred Ndengane while attempting to cross the ball.
Bernard Molekwa, Head Coach of Polokwane City Football Club.
