The City of Polokwane is ready to host two major sports events that will make a sizeable contribution to the Executive Mayor’s Bursary Fund for students from disadvantaged backgrounds and also to deserving non governmental organisations (NGOs).
The media launch of the Mayoral Charity Golf Day that is scheduled for 1 December at the Polokwane Golf Club as well as the warming-up rugby match between the Vodacom Blue Bulls and the Cell C Sharks that is scheduled to take place at the new Peter Mokaba Stadium on 27 January next year, took place at the Polokwane Golf Club on Tuesday.
Polokwane Executive Mayor Thembi Nkadimeng, Chief Whip Mamedupi Teffo and Members of the Mayoral Committee Josephine Maja and Charles Molepo represented the municipality while Barend van Graan, Chief Executive Officer of Blou Bulle Maatskappy and Attie Buitendag, Limpopo Blue Bulls Manager represented the rugby fraternity. Francois Hartlief, Area Manager of Standard Bank, represented the main sponsor of the golf day. Mortimer Mannya, Head of Department of Sport, Arts and Culture also attended.
Nkadimeng said that proceeds from the golf day will continue to support students who are capable of progressing academically but lack financial resources. “We decided in 2016/17 that instead of sponsoring a part of their tuition, our sponsorship should be a full bursary to allow the current 52 students to worry about studying and passing instead of whether their full fees will be paid. It is in that spirit that as we continue in 2018, those able students shall receive assistance with full tuition and accommodation for the duration of their studies,” Nkadimeng said and added that over 30 non-governmental organisations around the municipality were assisted with annual direct contributions of over R30 000 each and will be assisted again. “While this may be a drop in the ocean, it is significant in a sense that we have consistently aimed to better the offering each year, Nkadimeng said.
Barend van Graan, Chief Executive Officer of Blou Bulle Maatskappy, said it was an honour to bring the rugby game to Polokwane and pledged to contribute R100 000 to the Executive Mayor’s Bursary Fund from the proceeds of the event on 27 January. “The feedback we got from the players over the last couple of years was great and they all love playing in the stadium and interacting with the fans. The cause is also one the team is very keen about and will be looking forward to assist again,” Van Graan said.
Nkadimeng said some packages were still available for the golf day and invited businesses and the public to support this worthy cause.
Story and photos: BARRY VILJOEN
>>barryv.observer@gmail.com
Polokwane Executive Mayor Thembi Nkadimeng addresses guests at the media launch.
Polokwane Member of the Mayoral Committee for Sport, Arts, Culture and Special Focus, Josephine Maja delivers a word of thanks.
