Pietersburg Road Runners (PRR) achieved their goal by bringing home the gold medal in the men s open team category of annual Comrades Marathon hosted in KwaZulu-Natal on Sunday. The combined time of 25:10.06 of Timothy Munzhelele, Lutendo Mapoto, Calvin Malatji and Lucky Maahlo secured them the gold medal in the men s open team category. Munzhelele ran in a time of 2:58.43 and achieved a 17th overall position followed by his team mate Mapoto in 19th place in a time of 6:00.02. Malatji and Maahlo finished 46th and 133rd overall in a time of 6:20.31 and 6:50.50 respectively. Bethuel Netshifhefhe also received a silver medal after completing the marathon 37th overall and 13th in the masters category. Limpopo running sensation and former PRR athletes, Ludwick Mamabolo now running in Nedbank colours claimed fourth place overall in a time of 5:42.40. Andries Malete from Polokwane Athletic Club (PAC) finished 70th overall and 48th in the men s open category in a time of 6:30.54. He was followed seven minutes later by team mate Koketjo Gumbo. Melanie Melville finished 15th in the female master category in a time of 8:04.32. PRR Chairperson Colinda Potgieter said the team prize is an awesome achievement for the club. The team consists of young athletes and this year was a first for Maahlo which makes the gold medal even more special. All athletes who entered, finished the race and this is due to hard work and thorough preparation for the Comrades. Otherwise the race was hard and long as usual, Potgieter said. PAC Chairperson Corrie Calitz was surprised by the performance of the club s novice athletes. Overall our novices did extremely well. I am also satisfied with the two silver medals and a variety of Bill Rowan medals achieved by club members. More than 90% of participating athletes finished the race, he said. According to Mzansi Athletic Club Chairperson Richard Rambiyana the club is extremely proud as all novices managed to get pass the finish line. This is the most noticeable achievement for the new club and the two runners who were looking for back-to-back medals successfully collected them. He congratulated all Polokwane runners who participated in the Comrades and acknowledged the top performing athletes from PRR and PAC. Run/Walk for Life Chairperson Kobie Marais could not be reached for comment. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com &nbsp;