Learners at Eagle s Nest Christian School had a busy weekend participating in various sport activities with some of its teams attaining good results. The u.14A netball team finished second and brought home a silver medal from the Ubuntu Limpopo Netball Championships played at Ho rskool Pietersburg on Saturday. The first and u.15B soccer team lost to Northern Academy in the finals of the Polokwane Central Schools Football League played at PEPPS Preparatory School and College recently. The first team went down 0-2 and the u.15Bs 1-3 to finish second in the competition. Ten girls from Eagle s Nest were rewarded with certificates after taking part in the Take A Girl Child to Work Campaign at the Polokwane Magistrate s Court recently. The girls attended a number of court sessions on the day to learn more about the court proceedings. Thirteen of their fellow learners spent the day at the Netcare Pholoso Hospital to see how medical professionals work. Story and photos: ENDY SENYATSI &gt;&gt;endy@observer.co.za Eagle s Nest Christian School u.15B soccer team finished second in the finals of the Polokwane Central Schools Football League. In front are Kholofelo Maponya, Thabang Mashabela, Marvelous Nkala, Christopher Sehloka, Kabelo Pila, Moretsi Rapetsoa, Gabriel Chuene, Thato Seraki and Clever Tembo with Meshack Hlangani, Itumeleng Mapela, Malesela Letsoalo, Enock Dube, Kwetsemani Shibambu, Nkosinathi Sibanda, Amukelani Risenga, Thlelefo Mariri, Mashilo Balao, Lerato Seloana and Zhack Malonney at the back. Eagle s Nest Christian School u.14A netball team. In front are Fazel Marivate, Sharon Baloyi, Joy Mphahlele, Michelle Hlongwane, Basetsana Letsoalo, Michelle Lyle and Ranelle Espach with Zhack Malonney, Chimae Ewelaku, Tshegofatso Mashiane, Boikgantsho Buthelezi and Gopolang Mthambeni at the back. The thirteen Eagle s Nest Christian School learners who visited the Netcare Pholosho Hospital as part of Take a Girl Child to Work Campaign are, in front, Katekani Shibambu, Dimakat o Lepogo, Mpho Mautla, Kgethego Bokgobelo and Phuti Ledwaba with Isaac Manamike, Noko Malatji, Lisa Mhlanga, Ntotole Maloba, Ntsakisi Shivambu, Napyadi Seabela and Zhack Malonney at the back. Eagle s Nest Christian School learners Siyamukele Ledwaba, Thuli Jim, Onthatile Mabeba, Lesiba Pula, Gabrielle Denecker, in front, with Rebotile Ditshego, Khanyisa Hlungwane, Nicole Mmethe, Victoria Kgatle and Xane Aphane attended a Take A Girl Child to Work opportunity at the Polokwane Magistrate s Court.