The new Suzuki Ignis that was launched at Suzuki Polokwane on Friday brings a breath of fresh air and innovation to the local small car market by linking the wieldy agility of a city runabout to the robust styling and stance of an all-terrainer. The cheeky design of this newcomer links past, present and future Suzuki styling trends and will make heads turn. Its lightweight construction and rigid platform ensure superior ride and handling, while a lively 1,2-litre four-cylinder engine that is linked to a five-speed manual or innovative robotised-shift gearbox, delivers brisk dynamics. The Suzuki Ignis offers a potent mix of cost-saving efficiency, high comfort and safety levels and value for money. It is an ultra compact crossover that combines the dynamic benefits of a lightweight hatchback with the stance and clearance and enhanced visibility more typical of an SUV. The bold, almost square headlights, with their striking daytime running lights, frame a narrow, aggressive grille, while the deep, integrated front bumper is home to large air intakes, as well as front fog lamps on GLX models. The top half of the dashboard is finished in a smart black, while the lower sections are clad in contrasting white. The same contrasting black/white finish is employed for the door panels and the inside door grips and the centre console panels are finished in bright red, blue or titanium, depending on the chariot s exterior colour. A quick road test on a dirt road outside the city confirmed that the car s 180 mm ground clearance is a bonus on rough terrain, while a drive through the city offered enhanced ride comfort and engaging handling. The car s interior is comfortable and surprisingly spacious, while the combination of wieldy dimensions and raised ground clearance ensures driving pleasure across a broad spectrum of conditions. The new crossover s construction features Suzuki s Total Effective Control Technology (TECT), which includes crumple zones that efficiently absorb the impact of a collision, a chassis that efficiently distributes the impact energy and a rigid passenger safety cell. The manual-transmission model accelerates from 0- to 100 km/h in 11,6 sec, while top speed is 165 km/h. Fitted with the automated manual transmission, the Ignis gets to 100 km/h from rest in 13,0 sec, while top speed is 155 km/h. The fuel-injected K12M engine is an economy star, allowing the Ignis to achieve an impressive combined cycle fuel consumption figure of 5,1 litres/100 km in the case of manual gearbox models, and an even more frugal 4,9 litres/100 km for the automated manual model. Standard items across all models include electric windows, remote central locking, air-conditioning, electric power steering, and an MP3-compatible CD sound system with USB port and a 12V accessory power socket. Safety is equally comprehensively addressed via dual front airbags, ABS anti-lock brakes, side impact protection beams, Isofix child seat anchors and child-proof rear door locks. Offered in GL and range-topping GLX versions, the Ignis features a modern, surprisingly spacious and well-equipped interior. Despite its compact size, there is no shortage of legroom or headroom, while the luggage compartment offers 260 litres of cargo space, expandable to 469 litres with the rear seatback folded flat. The distinctive, innovative and fun to drive Suzuki Ignis is available for test driving at Suzuki Polokwane at 91 Landdros Mar Street (at the back of Honda) and they may be called on 015 297 0140. Story and photo: BARRY VILJOEN &gt;&gt;barryv.observer@gmail.com &nbsp;