Despite protests in opposition of the newly established Lim345 municipality, the Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) on Vuwani Chairperson Makoma Makhu rupetje says the municipality has already started delivering basic services such as water, sanitation, electricity, roads and housing through its three main service points located in Malamulele, Hlanganani and Vuwani. Makhurupetje, also MEC for Cooperative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs (Coghsta), indicated that Lim345 had gone a step further to establish ward committees in all areas except seven wards in Vuwani currently affected by demarcation challenges. She outlined that Coghsta, as part of the IMC on Vuwani, was working with stakeholders to ensure that ward committees are finally established in all areas. The municipal council was formally constituted on 17 August 2016 with the election of councillors, mayor, speaker and chief whip. All councillors have since been inducted and section 79 and 80 committees have also been appointed. Consultation processes on the naming of the municipality has been completed and they are awaiting confirmation that the name has been gazetted. Thus far, the council has adopted the organisational structure of the municipality and a municipal manager has since been appointed. The process of filling senior manager vacancies is expected to be finalised soon. The municipality is temporarily housed in the building known as DCO in Malamulele and feasibility studies have been done to construct new offices and a council chamber in Malamulele. These programmes were prioritised in order to comprehend both the establishment and consolidation phases while ensuring a rapid mobility to sustainability phase, she said. Makhurupetje emphasised that matters relating to traditional leadership, revenue management, bil ling, collections and credit control, secondment, transfer, recruitment of personnel and establishment of council structures and systems continue to receive attention. Although some departments have not been fully established, service delivery has not been hampered, said Makhurupetje. The IMC on Vuwani has tabled proposals for service delivery which are now be ing discussed with stakeholders for implementation. The objective is to ensure that the people of Vuwani receive service delivery and are not disadvantaged while the process of engagement on their grievances is underway. Story &amp; photo: ENDY SENYATSI &gt;&gt;endy@observer.co.za