Sixteen soccer teams from ten different schools in the city clashed on the pitch during the Polokwane Central Schools Football League finals played at PEPPS Preparatory School and College s sport fields on Saturday. All the teams revealed their best skills with the aim to win their matches and proceed to the final round. Teams were divided into two pools and the top two schools in each pool proceeded to the semifinals with the two winning teams playing in the finals and the two losing teams fighting for the third spot. The tournament was played in a round-robin format and teams had to win all their pool matches in order to play in the finals. In the u.15B pool, Northern Academy emerged victorious after defeating Eagle s Nest Christian School 3-1 in the finals while Ho rskool Noorderland and Capricorn High School occupied the third and forth places respectively. In the u.15A pool, Noorderland claimed the first spot as they defeated Northern Academy 2-1 with Taxila Secondary School finishing third and Westenburg Secondary School claiming the fourth position. In the second teams pool, Ho r Tegniese Skool Tom Naud walked away with a trophy and gold medals after beating Noorderland 2-0 in the finals with PEPPS College and Westenburg occupying third and fourth places respectively. In the first teams pool, Northern Academy was announced as the champions after winning their final match 2-0 against Eagle s Nest while Kabelo Secondary School claimed the third position and PEPPS College finished fourth. Story and photos:ENDY SENYATSI &gt;&gt;endy@observer.co.za Muhluri Mhlongo (red) of PEPPS Preparatory School and College s second team and Joshua Pitonsi of Ho r Tegniese Skool Tom Naud fight for ball possession. Muhluri Mohlong (red) of PEPPS Preparatory School and College s second team heads the ball while Tazwell Adonis tries to block him. Siyabulela Lilane (blue) of Westenburg Secondary School and Rakhidi Manamela of Ho rskool Noorderland in action. PEPPS Preparatory School and College soccer coach Martin Afonso with trophies that were presented to three Polokwane Central Schools Football League champions after the league finals at PEPPS on Saturday.