Police in Limpopo arrested hijacking and stock theft suspects who might be linked to various cases across the province since last week. Provincial Police Spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe said in the first incident a hijacking suspect was apprehended in Maake last Thursday. It is reported that the suspect and his accomplices hijacked a Nissan bakkie at Lenyenye on 31 May and investigations led Police to a premises at Metz village outside Maake where a man was found in possession of two revolvers, a pistol, a rifle, bolt cutter, mask, suspected stolen property and the white Nissan bakkie. He added that while the search for his accomplice continues, further investigations will also be conducted to ascertain whether the firearms had been used in other crimes. The same day a couple was hijacked in Mokopane and their Toyota Corolla recovered in Lebowakgomo the following day. The couple parked their vehicle in Mokopane city centre when they were approached by two armed men who reportedly demanded their car keys. The suspects robbed the couple of a wallet containing R1 000 cash, a Samsung cell phone worth R3 000, all their bank cards and drivers licences. One of the suspects drove off with the couple s vehicle and the other followed in a white Fortuner, Ngoepe said. Investigations continue as the suspects are still at large. Meanwhile, during a joint operation between Police in Tzaneen and Ritavi a Mercedes-Benz which hijacked at Murudjie village in Bolobedu last Thursday was recovered the following day. Ngoepe said the vehicle owner was hijacked at his gate by an unknown number of suspects on Thursday evening. The suspects drove him to Maake where they allegedly also kidnapped his girlfriend, according to Ngoepe. He added that patrolling officers noticed the suspicious vehicle speeding away in the direction of Lephephani village where another patrol van blocked the road. When the suspects noticed Police are blocking them in, the stopped and fled into the bush leaving their victims in the car unharmed. Investigations continue. Meanwhile Police intercepted an alleged stock theft syndicate along the Polokwane Lebowakgomo road on Friday after receiving a tip-off from a community member. A 28-year-old suspect was arrested for being in possession of 13 stolen cattle which were already being identified by their owner. The suspect was expected to appear before the Polokwane Magistrate s Court on Monday but no update was available from the Police. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com