A suspended Limpopo Police officer who allerted authorities on a matter of intimidation and conspiracy to murder reportedly implicating former Hawks boss Berning Ntlemeza and his daughter last month, is recovering after surviving a hail of bullets in what was described as a dodgy farm attack about a fortnight ago. According to information the Sub-Section Commander of the Limpopo Police s Proactive Policing Unit, Tume Ramahlaha is recuperating after having survived three gunshot wounds to the stomach during an incident in the Free State less than two weeks back. Nothing was stolen in the process, leading to the deduction that the captain was the sole target of a male assailant who allegedly followed and shot him with a pistol while at his family s farm on the border with Lesotho. As far as could be established no arrest has been made as yet. After numerous texts and email attempts to source his response, Ramahlaha indicated that he was not willing to comment. A family spokesperson, who wanted to maintain anonymity, was prepared to say Ramahlaha was currently convalescing well at an undisclosed location. We expect him to be in his usual no-nonsense crime-fighting spirits in no time. The news of the shooting broke about a month after reports on Ramahlaha having instituted a case against Ntlemeza and his one daughter, identified as Anele Ntlemeza stationed at Police Headquarters, for alleged intimidation and conspiracy to murder him. Polokwane Observer is in possession of a copy of the recording that reportedly gave rise to the institution of the case. The war between Ramahlaha and his former superior is a protracted one, including claims by Ramahlaha made in April 2015 that Ntlemeza in his capacity as then Deputy Provincial Commissioner in Limpopo was perceived to be protecting an officer who was reportedly in a relationship with his one daughter, identified as Amanda Ntlemeza. The then official, Terrance Rallele was dismissed in November 2015 after being found guilty of theft of a cell phone suspected to have been stolen during a burglary at the house of a colleague in February that year. He was given a four-month sentence or a fine of R2 000 suspended for three years. In March this year Polokwane Observer reported that the decision was taken by Limpopo Director of Public Prosecution Ivy Thenga not to prosecute Ntlemeza as no prima facie case could be found based on the docket . It was around the same time when a full bench of the North Gauteng High Court ruled Ntlemeza s appointment to be unlawful and invalid. Ramahlaha remains on suspension after his arrest by the Hawks in December 2015 for alleged intimidation of witnesses in the rape trial of a colleague in October 2015. In the meantime the court case serving in Seshego Magistrate s Court had to be postponed last Thursday due to him having been hospitalised. This was confirmed by National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) Limpopo Communications Manager Mashudu Malibi-Dzhangi, who said the state prosecutor in the matter had received information that Ramahlaha was admitted to hospital for an operation and a warrant for his arrest was stayed until 29 and 30 August. Earlier it was reported that the prosecutor in the matter had to recuse himself from the case during the last court appearance following an investigation instituted that would have related to the prosecutor s integrity. Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) Spokesperson Moses Dlamini indicated that a case of intimidation had been opened against Ntlemeza s daughter (Anele) and that investigations have been completed. The matter is ready to be referred to the NPA for a decision, he said on Tuesday.