Masilo Gafane, a former suspect in the Anisah Moosa kidnapping case and described by Police as dangerous and most wanted, accompanied by his lawyer handed himself over at the Polokwane Police Station last Tuesday after a massive manhunt. Gafane s recent release on R4 000 bail by the Nebo Magistrate s Court was met with dissatisfaction by the team handling the investigation against him. Provincial Police Commissioner Nneke Ledwaba in a press release conveyed his appreciation to the media for publishing information about Gafane being wanted which resulted in his surrender. Provincial Police Spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe said Gafane was facing a series of charges ranging from murder, attempted murder, armed robbery, kidnapping and hijacking to possession of a suspected stolen vehicle, firearm and ammunition without a licence. He had, since his release, reportedly been involved in a series of crimes, the latest of which an alleged hijacking in Maake about two week ago. He is believed to be part of a group that terrorised communities in, among others, Letsitele, Polokwane, Mankweng and Jane Furse between 2015 and late last year. The provincial investigating team was not satisfied with the release of Gafane and referred the matter to the Limpopo High Court for review of bail. The High Court have then ruled that he was not supposed to have been released and a warrant of arrest was issued, Ngoepe said. He indicated that, in addition to his alleged involvement in the Moosa kidnapping case, Gafane was also linked to a murder case in Letsitele where Musa Xiluwa was shot and killed during a hijacking incident. He is also reportedly responsible for robbing a security officer of his service pistol at Jane Furse. He and his accomplices were also intercepted by Police while allegedly on their way to rob a business in the same area. Police then confiscated an AK 47 assault rifle, a pistol and ammunition from the group. The kidnapping charge involving Moosa was withdrawn against Gafane and his accomplice Samuel Kubo earlier this year the reason reportedly being the continuous postponement thereof. Gafane will appear in Jane Furse Magistrate s Court next week. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com