PEPPS Polokwane Preparatory School awarded its best performing learners in academics, culture and sport during a ceremony that was held at the school recently. The head prefects for 2017, Tebogo Teffo and Aicha Mengouchi were announced. Three parents were given cultural awards in recognition of their continued support of various school programmes. Erika Mengouchi was rewarded for her continuous and positive support for each and every child at the South African Championships while Sumaiya Ghanchi was recognised for her continuous and loving support for all the learners at outreach programmes. Sharon Booth s unwavering helpfulness and dedication towards the sport of chess was also recognised. PEPPS u.10 netball and soccer teams were recognised and awarded for wining league matches and major tournaments respectively. The u.10 boys soccer team was awarded for winning the annual Pemps u.10 Soccer Tournament with 20 points while the u.10 netball team was honoured for winning their league matches against Piet Hugo Primary School, Mitchell House School and Curro Heuwelkruin. Story and photos: ENDY SENYATSI &gt;&gt;endy@observer.co.za PEPPS Preparatory School s Top Achievers in Grade 7 are, in front, Amani Mohamed, Dimpho Bandi, Maarij Alam, Connor Booth, Ayesha Ally and Aicha Mengouchi with Tshegofatso Pula, Nabeel Nadat, Tshepang Matla, Layan Rhemtula and Tebogo Teffo at the back. Pepps Preparatory School s u.10 netball team. In front is Team Captain Kutlwano Mosana, in the second row are Dineo Mothapo, Tlhompho Tjia, Mariet Bronkhorst (coach) Kutloano Serogole and Hlogi Kganyago with Sebrina Hartlief, Makoto Seabi and Refiloe Letsoalo at the back. PEPPS Preparatory School s u.10 soccer team was recognised for winning the annual Pemps u.10 Soccer Tournament. In front are Kitimela Mamashela, Takalani Malotsha, Aubrey Kaseke, Muhammed Ally, Blessing Bopape, Tendo Methomboni and Mopedi Rachoene with Jose Ambe, Malwandla Ngoveni, Zacharia Mphosi, Thato Mampho, Cecil Phatudi, Lethabo Segoou, Bokang Mothapo and Tinengoni Shuro at the back.