An urgent application to the Limpopo High Court by the Democratic Alliance (DA) may result in Polokwane Municipality operating without an approved budget and tariffs as from 1 July. The process of implementing the municipality s 2017/18 budget and tariffs with effect from 1 July, received a blow on Tuesday when the DA claimed that the budget and tariffs were not approved in accordance with legal requirements and are therefore invalid. The proposed increase in assessment rates on rented residential properties was also challenged. DA Caucus Leader in the municipality, Frank Haas said in a media release that a letter was delivered to the municipality through the DA s attorneys on Tuesday, setting out the DA s position on the matter and demanding that the municipality agrees to take remedial action by close of business yesterday (Wednesday), failure which the DA will approach the High Court promptly for appropriate relief. The DA claims that the municipal council did not have the majority of votes required to approve its 2017/18 budget during the council meeting held on 29 May. The DA says that when the motion to approve the budget was brought to a vote, eight votes were cast for adoption and eight against. After deliberation, Speaker Mariri Ralefatane ruled that the matter be brought to a vote again. With 67 councillors then present, the result was 40 votes in favour of adoption of the budget, eight (DA) votes against it and 19 councillors abstaining. The DA s claim relies on local government legislation and the Constitution that stipulates that a majority of the members of council should vote in favour of motions towards the adoption of the annual budget. Polokwane Municipality has 90 councillors and the supporting votes of 46 councillors were therefore required. The DA also disputes the legality of allowing a second voting process on the adoption of the budget. Haas confirmed that during the meeting, the DA objected to the procedure followed by Council as it did not comply with relevant local government legislation, the public participation process and the Constitution. During the meeting, the Speaker overruled the objection and the DA was refused any further questions or debate. The Speaker however flatly refused to minute the objection, Haas says. The DA demands that the municipality undertakes to make it public that the tariffs and budget was not approved and that it will take the necessary steps to convene a special council meeting and have it approved before 30 June, as required by law. The DA further insists that the municipality refrains from publishing the draft budget in the Provincial Gazette and immediately informs the provincial government that it has not yet passed an annual budget. The DA is further concerned about the procedural irregularities in the manner in which the draft budget was placed before Council as it purports to impose an increased differential rate on residential property of around 300%, that is used for rental purposes, which is contrary to the Local Government: Municipal Property Rates Act 6 of 2004 as there was no public participation process herein, Haas said. He added that if the rates were imposed, the DA would immediately approach the High Court to prevent its imposition, to set it aside and to compel the municipality to repay any unlawfully imposed rates. Story: BARRY VILJOEN &gt;&gt;barryv.observer@gmail.com