German manufactured vehicle enthusiasts can look forward to yet another new addition to Audi s model line-up, the Audi Q5 which is certain to set new standards and intends to convince rather than persuade, and expected to arrive at Audi Polokwane in August. It is efficient without spoiling driving enjoyment, sporty but still level-headed and combines sensible technologies with traditional qualities such as intelligence, comfort and power. The new Q5 is adamant to be noticed as one will recognise the sharpened, striking design at first glance. Generously wide rear lights give the car a distinct accent. In combination with the optional xenon plus headlights, the rear lights use LED technology and have a striking light strip. The emphatic rear diffuser and the flat-bottomed tailpipes give the rear an even more masculine look. The encompassing tailgate is practical and attractive. It not only lends an unmistakeable appearance to the rear, it also makes loading and unloading of the large luggage compartment more comfortable. In the front the exact lines, smooth surfaces, a three-dimensionally designed bonnet express the Audi Q5 s sportiness and elegance. The typical Audi face has been re-interpreted with the precise workmanship of the single frame radiator grille in high-gloss black with vertical chrome struts, front fog lights with chrome rings, webs in high-gloss black on the delicate air intakes and the trapezoidal bumper shape. Its appearance makes its presence felt and draws attention with a vehicle length of 4,629 mm and a width of 1,898 mm. Yet it still has one of the best drag coefficients in its class, which it owes among other things to its coup -type roof line. The Audi Q5 s power is immediately apparent too as the optional 20-inch cast aluminium wheels in 5-arm design gleam from beneath the widened wheel arches. The interior is pure Audi. Relaxed driving, but with a full overview at all times and clearly and ergonomically arranged instruments which provide the driver with important information at a glance. The optional driver information system helps with an overview of consumption data and fuel saving suggestions to actively save fuel. The integrated Attention Assist is also a great help, analysing the handling and recommending a break for the driver during longer journeys. The optional MMI navigation plus with 3D map representation enables access to different audio sources. Soft materials or, on request, sophisticated leather impart a comfortable feeling. The inclination of the rear seat backrests can be adjusted and there is a remote release function in the luggage compartment for folding them down. And the optional panoramic glass sunroof conveys a new sensation of space, giving you a clear view of the sky and offering an almost draught-free fresh air supply if desired. When it comes to the power behind the pretty face, the engines in the Audi Q5 are efficient and high in torque. The TFSI engines move you forward sportily, comfortably and with appealing consumption values. The 2,0 TFSI engine is equipped with the Audi valvelift system, which can help to reduce fuel consumption. The TDI engines have the common rail system and are characterised by quiet operation, impressive engine acoustics and agile driving behaviour. All engines have the start-stop system and recuperation function as standard. The Q5 come either in a manual transmission alongside two other transmission variants &#8211; the S tronic dual-clutch transmission and the 8-speed tiptronic. Both can also be operated via the optional multifunction steering wheel with shift paddles on request. For more information visit Audi Polokwane at their new building on the corner of Nelson Mandela Drive and Grobler Street or contact them on 015 590 8800. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com &nbsp;