Everyday ingenuity has always been at the heart of the Land Rover Discovery and the All-New Discovery signals the transformation from cogs to code, mechanical prowess and unparalleled off-road capability are now complemented by innovative technology to keep families safe, connected and confident in all conditions. This range of models has been designed to enable the existing 1,2 million Discovery drivers and potential customers to live the lifestyle that they aspire to. The All-New Discovery enhances people s lives without any compromise to off-road capability, refinement and luxury. Whether using it for a shopping spree, school run, or holiday adventure off the beaten track, the All-New Land Rover Discovery will make every family outing effortless. Seven full sized seats With seven seats and its trademark stepped roof line the All-New Land Rover Discovery has enough room to seat seven adults in absolute comfort. Each seat can be heated and, with up to nine USB ports, every passenger can charge their mobile phone or tablet on the go. For extra room, Land Rover s world-first Intelligent Seat Fold technology allows the driver to fold seats flat in just 14 seconds using the Discovery s touch screen, dedicated buttons in the cargo area or remotely using a smart phone. Incredible stowage Fold the seats flat, and the All-New discovery will offer loading capacity of 2 500 litres. With five passengers in the car, there s still a superb 1 231 litres of luggage volume behind the second row of seats. The All-New Discovery also offers room for smaller items. Up to four iPads can be stowed in the centre console, while the hidden storage compartment behind the climate control panel is a safe space for your wallet or phone. In total, there is nearly 45 litres of stowage space for everyday family essentials. Easy in, easy out Self-levelling air suspension ensures an adjustable ride height to suit a variety of conditions. This includes raising it to a maximum of 283 mm to clear obstacles. When stopping, the All-New Discovery automatically lowers itself by 40 mm to ease entry and exit. The new models are also available with Gesture Control Tailgate for hands-free opening of the tailgate by simply waving a foot under the bumper. Additionally, the powered inner tailgate folds down to serve as a bench or enable easier loading of cargo. Stay connected The All-New Discovery can be ordered with up to nine USB ports, for charging a wide variety of smart devices. It is also available with InControl Connect Pro, which uses 3G connectivity to create a wireless hotspot for up to eight smartphones, laptops or tablets. The InControl Touch Pro infotainment system gains internet access, allowing for satellite navigation with live traffic and integration with popular applications on drivers smart phones. Off-road at the push of a button Included in the vehicle is All-Terrain Progress Control, a system that acts like cruise control for off-road driving. Simply select a speed between 1,8 km/h and 30 km/h, and the Discovery s drive computers will automatically apply the correct amount of acceleration and braking, allowing even novice drivers to effortlessly negotiate treacherous terrain. Story: MARKI FRANKEN &gt;&gt;marki.observer@gmail.com &nbsp;