Security personnel from across the province marched to the departments of Health and Education yesterday (Wednesday) to hand over a memorandum of grievances. The marchers, organised by the Limpopo Security Officers Forum, included employed and unemployed security officers. Bernard Raseebana, General Secretary of the forum said the march was conducted after a number of security guards had lost their jobs, especially in Blouberg area, upon the appointment of a new security service company to render services in the two departments. He said security service companies don t comply with labour laws and this costs a lot of people their jobs. Last month, security personnel stationed in Mankweng Hospital also embarked on protests after realising that their jobs were being threatened by the new company that was given the tender at the hospital. Our people are also tired of earning peanuts and we demand that all security guards earn at least R5 000. Our Provincial Government does not listen to our grievances but rather continues to disrespect and undermine security guards in the province. We demand that when departments appoint service providers all relevant stakeholders such as Psira (Private Security Industry Posters displayed by members of the Limpopo Security Officers Forum spell out their demands. Regulatory Authority), the Labour Department and our forum be invited to guide the new contract holder on how things should be done, he explained. Security guards also demand the amendment of the services level agreement that will protect the rights of security officers. Raseebana said security services companies should not bring in new personnel after getting a tender but rather provide old staff with the new uniform to continue with their duties. Officers demand that all security companies must pay employees on time including overtime incentives. There are certain companies that treat employees like trash hence we request that contracts of such companies should be terminated. The Provincial Government must employ security officers on a contractual basis and avoid awarding tenders to private companies that care little about its employees, said Raseebana. The two departments were given 14 days to respond to the demands of the memorandum. Officers threatened to embark on a bigger strike if their grievances were not attended to. Story: ENDY SENYATSI &gt;&gt;endy@observer.co.za Photos: Herbert Rachuene &gt;&gt;herbert@mailbox.co.za