Four Mitchell House College learners, Team Kaizen, was recently named one of the top 20 teams country wide in the first ever Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Junior Case Study Competition. Team Kaizen comprises Dauda Sheni, William Li, Michael Muchopa and Rithik Samuel and entered the competition under the tutelage of Lynne Cocks, Accounting and Business teacher at Mitchell House. They competed against 220 teams and had to undergo a rigorous and transparent assessment process to make it to the top 20. The CFO Junior Case Study Competition is a cadet version of the globally acclaimed CFO Case Study Competition which is an international, annual multi-round business management and leadership-focused case study competition organised by The CharterQuest Institute. It challenges university students around the world to prove they can compete at the highest level by solving a set of complex and integrated finance, operational, strategic and ethical problems that beset a real-world global business in the emerging markets. Organised alongside this main competition, the junior competition challenges South African high school learners with career aspirations in finance and business to prove their leadership potential. They do this by competing to solve a set of real-life business management problems, drawing from their knowledge of Accounting, Business Studies and Economics. CharterQuest is a global institute at the forefront of grooming financially qualified business leaders of tomorrow, working alongside global professional bodies such as the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants (SAICA), the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), and the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), says Mitchell House Director of Marketing, Achsah Phoshoko in a media release. We seek to highlight the centrality of teamwork, creativity, presentation skills, business acumen as well as the value of taking a holistic and strategic approach to management. The CharterQuest Competency Framework for grooming financially qualified business leaders will guide the report marking, Project Executive Director of The CFO Case Study Competition, Valentine Nti was quoted as saying in the media release. Team Kaizen has three more rounds to complete and the winning team will be announced on 13 October. The grand prize is R50 000 and an opportunity to officially open the market at the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) on 17 October. Mitchell House Head, Andrew Cook wished the team all the best on behalf of the whole school. Story: MARKI FRANKEN &gt;&gt;marki.observer@gmail.com &nbsp;