Polokwane Municipality s budget for the 2017/18 financial year that was approved on Monday, contains news that does not auger well with already cash-strapped ratepayers. Assessment rates will increase with 8,5%, while consumers will pay 4% more for electricity and 10% more for water, refuse removal and sanitation. In presenting the budget during a special council meeting, Executive Mayor Thembi Nkadimeng said that the council was given a clear mandate by the community to deliver sustainable services in a constitutionally compliant manner and will address spending on non-priorities. This will form part of the oversight by council in monitoring cost containment measures. It is therefore imperative that we utilise each and every cent in an efficient manner and ensure that the principle of value for money is embraced, Nkadimeng said and added that the municipality will remain resolute in ensuring that the poor are subsidised on all key services. Service delivery: R1,3 billion The municipality will spend more than R1,3 billion on service delivery out of the amount of R3,9 billion that is budgeted for revenue. Employee cost is budgeted at R743 million, being 25% of the total budget as opposed to the 45% norm accepted by the National Treasury. Remuneration of councillors in 2017/18 will amount to R38 million. Bulk purchases remain a material cost and purchases of water and electricity from Lepelle Northern Water and Eskom will require an amount of R854 million. An amount of R204 million is budgeted to address the deterioration of existing assets in order to protect future income generation. In terms of general expenditure, an amount of R735 million will be available for goods and services including contracted services, sanitation, electrification and transportation related programmes. Contribution to capital projects The municipality will contribute an amount of R340 million to capital projects from its own funds which is an indication that the municipality is moving away from the dependence on grants for capital projects. Capital projects related to water will receive R416 million and R33 million is budgeted for rural electrification, while sanitation projects will cost R132 million. Road transport which includes the Integrated Rapid Public Transport System has been allocated R216 million and R110 million has been budgeted to address roads challenges on a concession basis as part of accelerated road infrastructure improvement. Rural and indigent households Nkadimeng also announced that more than 17 000 rural households will benefit from the R55 million that is set aside to fund free basic electricity and assistance to 13 500 indigent households. Pensioners Pensioners earning a monthly income not exceeding R8 300 and above the indigent threshold of R3 500 per household will receive rebates of 80% on assessment rates. The urban indigent package will include an exemption from payment of assessment rates on the first R100 000 of the market value of properties, six kilolitres of free basic water and 100 kWh of free basic electricity per month. Indigent households will also receive free sanitation and refuse removal and pay no basic electricity charge. Story &amp; photo: BARRY VILJOEN &gt;&gt;barryv.observer@gmail.com