Not everyone can afford to buy a new vehicle out of the box and buying a used vehicle is not always to be a matter of settling for second best because at Limpopo Toyota Automark a used vehicle is just as good as new. Automark is currently promoting the legendary 2016 Toyota Hilux 2,4 GD-6 SRX 4&#215;2 double cab for only R429 900 with extras such as mags, a roll bar, nudge bar and tow bar worth R23 000. This bakkie is in immaculate condition with only 29 500 km on the odometer. The Hilux has a striking design with bold, aggressive lines which put the vehicle at the forefront of modern bakkies. With new highly advanced engines, an updated six-speed transmission and an even more rigid, robust frame, the legendary status of the Hilux has been taken to a whole new level. Considered the bakkie of choice for anyone who needs to tackle any challenge, this 2,4 Hilux will without a doubt be the toughest bakkie around. With the available torque, more driving enjoyment, more luxury comforts and better stability on and off-road the 2,4 will impress as much as a new one. The engine is packed with technology and has been developed to increase capacity and output. Low-speed torque capabilities give greater control and handling, while the six-speed transmission unleashes the beast in situations where acceleration, overtaking or speed is of the essence. The sophisticated torque means better fuel consumption and a more enjoyable driving experience. The 2,4 GD diesel engine has been boosted with increased low and high torque options and delivers 110 kW of power at 3 400 rpm and 343 Nm of torque at between 1 400 and 2 800 rpm. The Hilux is not only tough but also a looker. The finishes on the exterior have been streamlined to deliver a more masculine, robust outline. The most striking features are the bullish, prominent front grille and the powerful halogen headlamps a combination that sets the Hilux apart from the pack. The raised body on the Raider models take it even further with additional front fog lamps. The bold, aggressive, design runs throughout the vehicle. The sculpted wheel flares and integrated over-fender provide for some eye candy while the black side steps allow for easy access. The bakkie is reinforced to make it more durable, tougher, stronger and more rigid and has been designed specifically to take on the toughest of conditions. And when it comes to the interior there is no skimping on comfort or style advanced form meets function in a strong yet elegant combination. The design creates a vehicle that is both tough and functional. On the sleek instrument panel a 7 touchscreen audio system is a focal point and DVD compatible. It also allows easy access to features like Bluetooth, fuel consumption information and audio. The 2,4 offers ample legroom and improved seat ergonomics which means exceptional comfort for the driver and passengers. On the easy-grip, four-spoke steering wheel there are also switches to control your cell phone, info display and audio. Safety features include Anti-lock Braking System (ABS), ISO-FIX child restraint system, Electronic Brake-force Distribution (EBD), Vehicle Stability Control (VSC) and Brake Assist (BA) which strengthens the power on the brakes in case of a panic stop. Limpopo Toyota also has other models available such as the 2,8 in single or double cab models. For more information or to book a test drive visit their show room 204 Tagore Street, Nirvana or contact them on 015 292 9650/02. Story and photos: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com The interior is spacious and in immaculate condition.