The Polokwane Municipality has sent a stern warning to individuals and community members from Seshego and surrounds who were perceived to attempt to illegally occupy the land on Farm Doornkraal 680 between Seshego traffic circle and Lesedi Park on Saturday. Despite an interim court order by the Polokwane Municipality which prohibits any individual or member of the community from performing the act, myriads of aspiring stand owners made their way to the area preparing to occupy the available land. The hopeful would-be occupiers were halted by the security personnel appointed by Polokwane Municipality. Unlawful conduct The Municipality is saying they will arrest any individuals who despite knowledge of the order persist in the unlawful conduct. According to the court order, which was read and explained to the invaders and their ring leaders on the day, the respondents are interdicted and restrained from, either individually or through an appointed agent, trespassing or occupying the property known as the remaining extent of portion 8 (A portion of portion 1) of the farm Doornkraal 680 and in particular the clearing of the natural vegetation including but not limited to trees and grass on the property. SAPS to uphold law It further directs the South African Police Service to give effect to the content of the order and uphold the law of the land in accordance with its constitutional mandate particularly through providing assistance to the sheriff of the court in serving and enforcing the terms of this order. According to the Manager Communications and Marketing at the Polokwane Municipality, Matshidiso Mothapo the invaders were dispersed by security personnel after they started pockets of veld fires on the piece of land which is a criminal offence. The firefighters had to be called in to put out the fire. The property belongs to the municipality and is zoned for business purposes, Mothapo said. He further revealed it has come to their attention that most of the people who want to benefit from such illegal land grabs do not qualify for government housing as they already own properties and only want to use land for purposes of establishing businesses in the form of rental accommodation. Stands identified by muni The municipality has identified portions of land in Seshego that would accommodate up to 3 000 residential stands that would be awarded properly to qualifying residents. The identified portions are currently undergoing township establishment processes and once done services will be installed, remarked Mothapo. Story &amp; photo: Herbert Rachuene &gt;&gt;herbert.observer@gmail.com