Polokwane Municipality s budget for the 2017/18 financial year was finally approved with amendments to some of the tariffs during a special council meeting on Tuesday, but only after the Democratic Alliance (DA) compelled the municipality to follow due process under threat of legal action. The municipality originally tabled its budget and tariffs for the financial year that commences on 1 July during a council meeting on 29 May. The budget and tariffs were approved with a majority of votes of the councillors present in the meeting. In a letter sent to the municipality three weeks after the meeting, the DA informed the municipality through its attorneys that the vote on the matters was invalid because it required a majority of votes of all the councillors and not only those present in the meeting. The DA also alleged that an opportunity to discuss the budget and proposed tariffs was denied by the speaker. The DA informed the municipality that, unless the approval of the budget and tariffs was rescinded and re-tabled, legal action will follow. The municipality on the same day responded to inform the DA that we submit that the 2017/18 and Outer Years Budget was approved accordingly and the Municipality will not adhere to your clients demands and therefore any legal action taken against the Municipality will be vigorously defended. The DA and Franco Marx, DA councillor, then filed an urgent application to the Limpopo High Court to be heard on Tuesday. The municipality, after being advised by its legal representatives, conceded that the approval of the budget and tariffs was not valid and convened the special council meeting on Tuesday. During Tuesday s meeting, the DA was allowed to discuss the budget and tariffs and insisted that some of the tariff determinations be revisited and amended. Marx said that discrepancies between the draft tariffs and those that were presented for adoption would have a major financial impact on residential property owners. He explained that the proposed tariff structure makes provision for a category wherein residential owners who rent out their residential properties would pay three times the normal rate. Marx also highlighted the fact that, although an increase of only 8,5% was tabled, the municipality proposed an increase of 143% on the rates payable on vacant land and 770% on Farming for other purposes . After deliberations and a caucus of African National Congress (ANC) members, amendments were accepted and the budget and tariffs were approved by council. The amended tariff structure finally provided for an increase of only 8,5% and the reference to a special tariff on residential properties that are rented out, was scrapped. After the meeting, Executive Mayor Thembi Nkadimeng and Municipal Manager Dikgape Makobe briefed the media and Nkadimeng said that the meeting was an example of democracy in action and explained that the municipality misinterpreted the legal requirements for valid resolutions on 29 May. After the municipality was made aware of a Constitutional Court ruling that provided the correct interpretation of the law, it was decided to convene the follow-up meeting and have the budget and tariffs discussed and approved, Nkadimeng said and added that she looks forward to 100% implementation of the budget. Reacting to the outcome of Tuesday s meeting, DA caucus leader Frank Haas said that the DA was happy to see that the final budget vote was unanimous, with all parties supporting. Marx added that it is unfortunate that the DA had to take the matter to court to ensure that that opposition parties were allowed to debate on the budget. The DA also provided Polokwane Observer with a copy of a letter from the municipality s attorneys in which they said: Upon perusal of the application we confirm advising our client about the misinterpretation of the provisions of the Structures Act, read with the Constitution . Story &amp; photo: BARRY VILJOEN &gt;&gt;barryv.observer@gmail.com