With the ruling party s Limpopo vote being predominantly rural, the African National Congress (ANC) in the province stands to suffer irreparable damage in loss of future crosses on ballots if a threatening voter drain linked to Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa (Contralesa) support takes a turn for the worst within the next couple of months. The picture further afield doesn t look any different either as a perceived rift endangers support for the ruling party countrywide. The warning about a pending crisis was posed from the podium by Contralesa Provincial Chairperson Letsiri Phaahla during the opening session of a three-day extraordinary Provincial General Council (PGC) of the African National Congress s Veterans League (ANCVL) in Polokwane on the weekend. Stalwarts and veterans of the organisation and affiliates of alliance, progressive youth alliance and Mass Democratic Movement structures met to discuss working with the people to reclaim the party from subversion to revolutionary struggle. In their messages of support speakers expressed concern about the current political climate in the country and the future of the ruling party. In an interview Phaahla referred to Contralesa in seven of the nine provinces already having taken a resolution in October last year to move away from the ANC after having attempted to engage the ruling party on issues of concern for approximately six years prior to Contralesa s National General Council (NGC) taking the resolution. In Feburary this year the NGC gave the organisation until October for reconsideration, it was learnt. The NGC warned that if nothing should come of it they would part ways and consideration be given to a political party that would serve their needs or a formation of a new party by royal leaders, their followers and supporters of the systems of traditional leadership, Phaahla further explained. Such a move would have far-reaching implications for the ANC, he emphasised. He conceded that a break with the ANC could result in the party losing millions of votes. But Contralesa was still willing to talk to the ANC, according to Phaahla, although they could not force someone to come to the table if they were unwilling to enter into further negotiations. He expressed the belief that the issues at hand should have been addressed years back, but that somebody had ignored them intentionally so. He summarised the root cause of the problems as the ANC s internal conflict having ended in them prioritising their own issues. Situation in Limpopo With regards to the situation in the province, Phaahla referred to Contralesa Limpopo s engaging the top leadership of the ANC in the province leading to the establishment of a task team in January this year. But after two meetings they had been informed two months later that engagements were suspended indefinitely though, he pointed out. Three letters have been written since to request the revival of the task team but had not yielded any response, according to Phaahla. Contralesa desperately wanted the ruling party in the province to address the problems and if they continued to be arrogant they would not force them, Phaahla opined. A resolve of issues was very easy if the ruling party demonstrated goodwill and commitment, Phaahla indicated as he used the example of transfer of state land occupied by communities under traditional leadership which in Limpopo constituted 20% of state land &#8211; only requiring a signature. The holding of their land in trust despite the scrapping of the 1913 Native Land Act in the Nineties was grossly unconstitutional, he pointed out. Polokwane Observer was informed that other issues of concern to traditional leaders in the province are the related transfer of title deeds to communities in areas where mining occurs on tribal land, reconstitution of traditional councils and budgetary allocation for such a process, salary disputes over an estimated 500% difference between that of kings and senior royal leaders and the delay in appointment of 420 headmen across Limpopo awaiting verification. Lastly there was the issue of the lack of deployment of royal leaders, of whom some had vast experience in the public service and parastatals, Phaahla added. Phaahla remarked that as royal leaders they were concerned about the state of the nation and the future, which looked very bleak for poor communities resorting under their leadership when taking into consideration the country s credit rating downgrades. He said they were made to believe that there was goodwill from sectors of the ANC who would rather engage with them to avert a catastrophe because the base of the ANC was mostly the rural vote as the urban vote was slightly slipping away. Phaahla expressed the hope that, in handing their submissions to the veterans of the organisation in Limpopo, the party elders would be able to twist the ANC s arm to revive engagements. He, however, was adamant that they didn t want empty promises but strict time lines for implementation. Concerns of last standing ANCVL in country In a media statement issue prior to the weekend PGC, the ANCVL in Limpopo reportedly the only functional veterans league of the ANC in the country &#8211; stated that it had been convened at a time when the ANC was facing serious challenges that were impacting negatively on the ability of the organisation as the ruling party and leader of society to fulfil its revolutionary mandate of leading the National Democratic Revolution. It further said the veterans as the embodiment and custodians of the Constitution, the traditions, values and morals of the ANC and the struggle were deeply concerned about the image of the organisation that was fast becoming associated with rampant corruption, arrogance and failure to listen to the concerns of the South African people. PGC demands resignation of party President, national executive Commissions met on issues of land restitution and rural development, organisational renewal and design, governance and legislature as well as security, health and welfare of veterans, economic transformation an international relations, communications and media matters and lastly, electoral reform and elections. In three pages of resolutions the council demanded the resignation of the party President and entire National Executive Committee (NEC). The reason is that all the collective is to blame for the mess the ANC finds itself in. It would further want to see that the executive structure be reduced to half its size and be complemented by the creation of sub-committees. The gist of interviews conducted on the sidelines with outspoken veterans in attendance on the weekend catered for the general expression of opinion that President Jacob Zuma and his NEC should go. Story &amp; photos: YOLANDE NEL &gt;&gt;observer.yolande@gmail.com Congress of Traditional Leaders in South Africa (Contralesa) Provincial Chairperson Letsiri Phaahla on the podium. ANCVL Limpopo member Florence Mamabolo with South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) Provincial Secretary Theo Makola and Provincial Chairperson Mesina Masekoameng (back) after Friday evening s opening session.