The Polokwane Annual Mayoral Cycle Race that was hosted in the city on Sunday was not all fun and games for some cyclists. Controversy surrounds the results of the 15 km race in particular after cyclists were misdirected at a point and had to join other participants further along the designated route. The end result was that the cyclists arrived at the finishing point from different directions, creating confusion and even danger. How can we benchmark the performance of participants if they followed different routes, a disgruntled parent of one of the minors that participated, remarked. Head of Communications, Marketing and Stakeholder Relations in the Transportation Directorate of the municipality, Mantlako Sebaka said that a number of complaints have been registered on social media and on other platforms and admitted that the number of marshals deployed to man the points during the event were less than planned for, hence some of the points were not manned by marshals. We appreciate that none of the participants were harmed during the event as their safety is our concern, Sebaka said. The municipality s Community Development Director Ndavhe Ramakuela added that 100 marshals were nevertheless deployed to man the routes and were assisted by more than 20 traffic officers. Riders collected their race numbers and information that is geared towards the race is provided during collection of such numbers including routes, starting time and other related rules of the race. CSA does that. The commissars briefed the riders at the start of the race, he explained. According to Ramakuela, the total prize money amounting to R300 000 were distributed between winners and the overall winner in the 104 km distance received R25 000. Sebaka also informed that the total income and expenditure for the event is not calculated as yet. We do not operate to make a profit but rather to stimulate growth within the Local Economic Development point of view and promote sport, tourism and a healthy lifestyle. Ramakuela said that the municipality aimed at increasing the 589 entries from last year to 1 000, but only 700 cyclists registered and some did not eventually pitch or completed the race. Story: BARRY VILJOEN &gt;&gt;barryv.observer@gmail.com