The Department of Education has expressed its sympathy with the families of victims of the head-on collision that claimed the lives of nine people along the R579 on Tuesday morning. Four of the deceased were experiential students attached to the department. Pududu Maphutha, Taelo Talane, Makelle Masemola and Mathari Sefoka were travelling in a taxi from Ga-Masemola to Lebowakgomo when their minibus taxi collided with a truck. Departmental Spokesperson Naledzani Rasila said they were saddened by the sudden death of their students and wished all their families strengths in these trying times. May God give their families and relatives strength and may their souls rest in peace, Rasila said. The African National Congress (ANC) in the Peter Mokaba Region issued a press statement this morning, conveying condolences to the families who lost loved ones in the accident and wished the injured a speedy recovery. In the statement ANC Peter Mokaba Regional Secretary Eugene Masete called on Transport and Rural Safety MEC Nandi Ndalane to intensify road safety campaigns to teach people about behaviour on the roads. One death is one too many! He simultaneously expressed the opinion that car crashes are human factors and can be avoided. We call on all our drivers and pedestrians to be careful on our roads and observe all rules and also be patient with each other. Limpopo Legislature Speaker Polly Boshielo has also expressed her deepest condolences to the bereaved. Words cannot even begin to explain how I feel about this terrible accident, Boshielo said in a press release issued on Wednesday. Our thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved families in this difficult time and we also wish the injured ones speedy recovery, the statement read. Boshielo also encouraged motorists and pedestrians to obey all rules of the road at all times. Fatigue is one of the factors contributing to road crashes. Therefore it is important for motorists to always consider resting every 200 km or every two hours to save the lives of our people, the statement concluded. Provincial Police Spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe said a case of culpable homicide is being investigated. Story: YOLANDE NEL &gt;&gt;observer.yolande@gmail.com RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com Herbert Rachuene &gt;&gt;herbert@mailbox.co.za Photo: Supplied