Baroka Football Club increased its chances of retaining Premier Soccer League (PSL) status by thrashing Stellenbosch Football Club 2-0 at Peter Mokaba Stadium on Saturday. Club Captain and long serving player of the team, Olaleng Shaku and midfielder Mduduzi Mdantsane scored the goals in the first and second half of the match. This feat sees Baroka on top of the National First Division and PSL Playoffs mini league with seven points after three matches. With only one match to go Bakgakga are confident that they will be the winners after their last match against Black Leopards Football Club at Thohoyandou Stadium on Saturday. We are in a position that we have always wanted to be, but we don t want to get too comfortable. We have one match left and that is against Black Leopards whom we beat 2-1 last Wednesday. They will come at us for sure, they will be seeking revenge. We respect them and we are ready for them, Club Spokesperson, Jimmy Ngobeni said. Remarking on the role of their fans and supporters he said: They have been there with us, they came in numbers especially during the playoff matches and we really appreciate their support. We would love to see them turning up in droves again for this last match. We also want to thank the Provincial Government and corporates who have travelled the journey with us, we will not disappoint them and guarantee them that we will play in the PSL next season, Ngobeni said. He also mentioned that they will retain the services of former Mamelodi Sundowns and Bafana Bafana defender Punch Masenamela who joined the team in February. Masenamela played 14 matches for Baroka and has been instrumental in the team s relegation battle and playoffs. His contract that expires at the end of this month without the option for an extension. We are going to renew his contract, in fact we are going to renew many player s contracts. We are also awaiting the report from the technical team and that will guide us about which players we should release or retain, Ngobeni concluded. Story and photos: Herbert Rachuene &gt;&gt;herbert.observer@gmail.com Baroka Football Club defender, Punch Masenamela tries to find his way with the ball. Captain of Baroka Football Club, Olaleng Shaku celebrates his goal against Stellenbosch Football Club. Supporters of Baroka Fooball Club celebrate their Club 2-0 victory against Stellenbosch Football Club.