A host of tourism related products in the province benefited from Limpopo Tourism Agency s (LTA) promotion of mega conservation as main marketing positioning at the recent Tourism Indaba in Durban. LTA acting Chief Executive Officer, Bibi Kotsedi said their marketing concept centred on the mega conservation cluster incorporating elements of other tourism clusters. The tourism clusters are segments in respect of interest of various categories of people visiting the province. That included family recreation, golf and safari, business, meetings, conferencing and events and we managed to market those. The central thrust was also to deliberately reaffirm Limpopo as a home of mega conservation. We highlighted the three national parks, which are Kruger National Park, Mapungubwe National Park and Marakele National Park. This is further reinforced by the transfrontier park status of the Greater Maphungubwe Transfrontier Park situated at the confluence of the Shashe and Limpopo rivers on the Botswana and Zimbabwe borders, Kotsedi said. He also spoke about the expansion of Kruger National Park into the East of Mozambique and to the north of Limpopo River into Zimbabwe to Great Limpopo Transfrontier Park, which has since become one of the largest conservation areas in the world. The province also has government owned game reserves as well as private sector led game reserves spread throughout the province which reinforces Limpopo s position as a leading destination in South Africa. The year will be a good year to reclaim our status as the leading conserved region in South Africa. For Limpopo destinations mega conservation is the main driver of spend and tourism arrivals for both domestic and international markets, he explained. Reflecting on the Indaba Kotsedi mentioned that they had good interactions with both government and private sector stakeholders in attendance, and had good interactions with exhibitors. The impression we got is that business went well and the exhibition was a resounding success. Over the past years, the marketing efforts at Indaba have constantly promoted the tourism clusters as part of positioning the province s tourism offerings. After a rigorous series of planning and consultations with the industry, jointly with these tourism stakeholders we have come up with a clear marketing plan and theme for this year, he said. We would like to take this opportunity to thank all our stakeholders and everybody who worked hard to ensure that indaba 2017 becomes a success and that Limpopo is well represented at this important tradeshow, Kotsedi concluded. Story: Herbert Rachuene &gt;&gt;herbert@mailbox.co.za