A shortage of textbooks, Learning and Teaching Support Material, infrastructure and technology are among the challenges highlighted during the 2017 Provincial Education Summit held in Polokwane on Monday. The aforementioned are among issues that continue to hinder the progress of learners in various schools across the province and Education MEC Ishmael Kgetjepe confirmed that a lot of work still needs to be done to have strong learning foundations in the early grades to decrease the number of drop-outs towards the end of secondary schooling. Kgetjepe said the department and education experts must position themselves to meet challenges. He said it was common knowledge that Grade 12 results declined and the department was unable to meet the 80% pass rate target as they were requested by Premier Stan Mathabatha. Kgetjepe added that the department s priority must be to improve the quality of teaching and learning in order to achieve improved quality outcomes. Progress is possible. Resources are needed. The summit is an important step towards a better future and an educated world. Last year s Grade 12 results are important indicators for all of us as government, principals, educators, business community and parents that we need to do more and to look at reasons why we are not seeing sufficient comparable improvements in learner outcomes. This must be done without pointing fingers to anyone or any direction. We know that we might not be blessed with the best infrastructure and the best technology but we do have excellent schools, hardworking teachers and principals in classrooms right through the province. He added that learners in the Foundation Phase must be equipped with the skills needed to cope with all the curriculum requirements of the higher grades. We must focus more on the foundation phase and the performance of the young ones. We must ensure at the outset that children are school ready, ensure that when a learner leaves primary school, they are equipped for success at secondary, prior to successfully partaking in higher education, Kgetjepe emphasised. Department Head Beauty Mutheiwana stressed that the summit was also meant to develop and implement strategies for full implementation of outstanding 2016 resolutions; engagement of education stakeholders in ensuring the provision of quality teaching and learning and engagement on new trends in the education sector for improved learner performance. She said Mathabatha, in his 2016 State of the Province Address, made a pronouncement that the department should hold an Education Summit focusing on improving learners performance and to maximise accountability. It is at that summit that experts delivered researched papers guiding the department to strengthen its delivery plans, she explained. Story &amp; photos: ENDY SENYATSI &gt;&gt;endy@observer.co.za Education stakeholders listen to presentations during the 2017 Provincial Education Summit on Monday.