While the search for at least 18 suspects responsible for the robbing of two Automatic Teller Machines (ATM) and the killing of a security guard at Twin City Complex in Burgersfort continues, another incident of ATM blasting was reported at Mankweng on Monday. Provincial Police Spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe said that no arrests were made yet in connection with the incident at Burgersfort during which two ATMs were opened and an undisclosed amount of money stolen. A security guard, Charles Botha was fatally wounded during the incident. It is reported that about 18 armed suspects arrived at the complex in a silver grey Nissan Navara, silver Audi A4 and a white Volkswagen Golf 6. While some of the suspects stormed the building and instructed security officers to lie down, others closed off the R555 and R37 road adjacent to the complex. Some of the suspects allegedly used grinders to cut open ATMs, according to Ngoepe. Grinders were used to open two ATMs at Twin City Complex in Burgersfort on Friday. The ATM which was bombed at Total Nobody on Monday. The Nissan Navara was found not far from the scene with blood stains in the interior as well as exterior, Ngoepe said. At Total Nobody outside Mankweng a group of suspects in three vehicles entered the premises and attacked the petrol attendants and shop personnel. Ngoepe alleged that the suspects were armed and ordered petrol attendants to fill up their vehicles. Some entered the shop and allegedly took cigarettes and other items, bombed the ATM and the drop safe and fled with an undisclosed amount of cash, according to Ngoepe. No-one was injured. Police are searching for a white Toyota Hilux double cab with registration DNN 148 L, a silver grey BMW with registration VSS 276 GP and a charcoal Toyota Fortuner with an unknown registration number. Anyone with information on either incidents can contact the investigating officer Capt Boshomane on 079 894 5501 or the nearest Police station. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com Photos: Supplied