The air at the Polokwane Show Grounds oval racing track was filled with the smell of rubber and fuel as the Drifters from the Cooper Drift Team and racers from Polokwane gave the crowd a spectacular show during the Club Championships on Saturday. The day s racing went on without any serious incidents, except for car 33 belonging to Pieter Louwrens crashing into the wall during the 1660 s category race, and walked away with no injuries. In the Ninja Midgets division, Chari Marais proved to be the fastest while Jeandr Nortre leaded the pack in the Rookies division. Herman Nel blew dust into the eyes of his competitors in the Stock Rods division while Heath Bent put on a magnificent display of driving skills to be crowned the 1660 s division winner. In the 2.1 litre Modifieds division Johhny du Randt was the quickest and of the two drivers that competed in the Hod Rods division, Johan Fourie proved to be the best. Nic de Wit came first in the Rebels division. The drivers displayed true sportsmanship during the races as Marius Niemand, Polokwane Ovals Raceway Commentator stated: The racing was neat, there was no pushing between the drivers on the track and the crowds supported us well. Saturday s event was a club championship where only the racers belonging to the club competed. The next club championship will be held on 5 August and on 9 September racers from across the country will visit Polokwane to compete in the National Championships. Story, photos and video: THINUS DU TOIT &gt;&gt;thinus@observer.co.za Results of Polokwane Oval Raceway Club Championship Ninja Midgets division: First: Chari Marais Second: Jayden Bent Third: Tanieka Bent Rookies division: First: Jeandr Nortre Second: Andri Cronje Third: Dawie van der Merwe Stock Rods division: First: Herman Nel Second: Hennie de Koker Third: Johan Bezuidenhout 1660&#8217;s division: First: Heath Bent Second: Dylan Bosch Third: Roelf Nel 2.1lit Modifieds division: First: Johhny du Randt Second: Pieter Venter Third: Desmond Bosch Hot Rods division: First: Johan Fourie Second: Jacques Cronje Rebels division: First: Nic de Wit Second: Stephan de Wit Third: Jonathan Fourie Shaun Keating, 89, tries to catch Johan Bezuidenhout during the first heat of the Stock Rods division. Nic de Wit, car 91 overtakes Johan Fourie, car 94, on the outside during the first heat of the Rebels division race in the Polokwane Ovals Raceway Club Championship on Saturday. The Cooper Drift Team display their skills after the first heat of racing. Tanieka Bent, 114, tries to get away from Jayden Bent, 115, during the Ninja Midgets category first heat race. Cheri Marais takes victory during the first heat of the Ninja Midgets category race. Francois Lewis, 77, and Markus Hallatt, 200 race each other to the finish line. Good sportsmanship is displayed as Johan Fourie, 94, assists Niel de Witt s, 93, broken down car off the track after the race in the first heat.