The Management of Polokwane City Football Club has heaped praise on its players and technical team for ensuring a top 8 bracket finish in the 2016/17 Premier Soccer League (PSL) season. City s success in the league was sealed on Saturday when they beat Cape Town City Football Club 4-2 at the old Peter Mokaba Stadium. Their victory put them in 6th position of the league with 43 points accumulated from 30 matches. Chief Operations Officer, Tincy Tema said their top 8 finish is one their biggest achievements since their promotion to the elite league in 2013. Credit must go to the players for the hard work, commitment and dedication they have shown since the first match of the season. The technical team deserves compliments for steering them in the right direction. We started well, we prepared well and our recruitment policy was good. We struck a balance with the right players. We had a good squad, a mixture young and experienced players and that also helped us, Tema explained. He said the top 8 finish was not their main target but part of their future plans. When we were promoted from the National First Division in 2013 we just wanted to keep our PSL status. Now we want to win cups and compete and we have proven that we can this season. We struggled in our maiden season and at some point found ourselves fighting for relegation. We don t ever want to see ourselves in that position again. I think that experience was one of our biggest driving forces this season, Tema said. He added that they were proud of their former player Bernard Molekwa who took over as interim coach after the departure of their former Head Coach, Luc Eymael in March. He has done well for the club and he is quality. He won five matches, drew two and lost three out of 10. We are happy with him and he will continue with the club as an interim coach next season, Tema said. Molekwa, who has aspirations of becoming a head cach one day, said he was elated to have helped the team finish so well. I appreciate the opportunity I was given by management. It was a fulfilling task and I learnt a lot. I am not ready yet to be a head coach because I am still learning but it is something I will consider in future, Molekwa said. Story: Herbert Rachuene &gt;&gt;herbert@mailbox.co.za &nbsp;