Polokwane City FC bid farewell to one of the team s oldest players, Esau Kanyenda who played his last game with Rise and Shine when they walloped Cape Town City FC 4-2 during the Premier Soccer League (PSL) encounter at the old Peter Mokaba Stadium on Saturday. According to the club s Chief Operations Officer Tincy Tema, Kanyenda has been with Polokwane City since 2011. He said the Malawian international retired from the football fraternity and the team presented him with a framed soccer jersey autographed by all the players and the team s technical staff. The game against Cape Town City was played at a fast pace and the visitors managed to open the scoring line through Aubrey Ngoma who netted a beautiful free-kick in the first minute of the game. The goal seemed to have a negative impact on the hosts and this gave former Orlando Pirates striker Lehlogonolo Majoro a chance to add yet another goal to Cape Town City s list with a clinical finish after a through ball from the team captain Lebogang Manyama in the sixth minute. Rise and Shine came back to the party 18th minute in the game after the team captain Jabulani Maluleke converted a free-kick into a goal. Maluleke s goal brought Rise and Shine back into the game and they were seen sharing the ball around and attacking the visitors from all the angles with the aim to find an equaliser. Indeed their efforts did bear fruits five minutes before the interval as they found an equaliser through Thabiso Semenya who turned home a pass from Sipho Jembula. Polokwane City added two more goals to their list in the second half. Sibusiso Mbonani nodded home a corner from Maluleke in 51 minutes while Vusimusi Mngomezulu scored the fourth goal in the remaining 20 minutes. Polokwane City finished on the sixth spot on the log and this qualifies them for the MTN8. Story and photos: ENDY SENYATSI &gt;&gt;endy@observer.co.za Two Polokwane City FC players, Thabiso Semenya and Sipho Jembula attempt to stop Aubrey Ngoma of Cape Town City from kicking the ball during the PSL encounter at Old Peter Mokaba Stadium on Saturday. Thabiso Semenya of Polokwane City fights for ball possession against Ebrahim Seedat of Cape Town City.