The Department of Economic Development, Environment and Tourism (Ledet) will visit five townships and five villages in Limpopo over the next few months in order to listen to residents, share ideas and find out how the department can radically transform the economies of townships and villages. Ledet MEC Seaparo Sekoati in his 2017/18 Budget Speech said the visits would take the form of imbizos with business formations to provide details on how regulations would be implemented and to solicit input that would inform the Limpopo Township and Village Revitalization Strategy. The targeted business formations will include, among others, street vendors, taverns, minibuses, spaza shops, burial societies, stokvels, hair salons, plumbing, panel-beating and home-based care. The Township and Village Economy Revitalization Strategy builds on existing government support programmes aimed at accelerating the radical economic transformation agenda. The vision of the strategy is to build dynamic and sustainable township enterprises with an objective of an inclusive, labour absorbing and growing township and village economy. After the road shows, the outcomes of the engagement will be incorporated into the strategy which is still in draft format and waiting for contributions. This will lead to establishing social and economic values of the township and village economy. Better support for township and village economy will come when all spheres of government, the financial community and support organisations understand its nature and needs, are convinced of its social and economic value and alter their practices to incorporate support for township and village enterprises. Promoting access to markets, provincial and local spheres of government in particular have an important role in opening up procurement processes through the review of procurement guidelines and creating a list of ring-fenced goods and services to be procured from township and village entrepreneurs. Despite intense competition, government support will enable township and village enterprises to make use of opportunities to turn their fortunes around. Other outcomes that the strategy aims to achieve include creating an enabling and supporting environment based on eight strategic focus areas for township and village economy revitalization that are outlined in the draft strategy to be shared during the imbizos; establishing the social and economic value of township and village economies; and ensuring that township and village enterprises become key players in the Limpopo economy, the statement concludes. Story: MARKI FRANKEN &gt;&gt;marki.observer@gmail.com