A woman from Mehlareng Village, Zebediela found herself at the wrong end of the law after a video showing her allegedly sexually abusing a mentally challenged man went viral on social media recently. In the video a woman is apparently seen sexually abusing the man in the presence of other people who are heard teasing the victim. Social Development Department Spokesperson Adele van der Linde said in a statement that acting MEC Phophi Ramathuba strongly condemned such acts of violence and degradation against the most vulnerable members of society and hoped that the law would take its course against the alleged perpetrator. To reports of the victim s family allegedly claiming that social workers from the department were refusing to counsel the victim and were dragging their feet in assisting the family, Van der Linde responded by saying the department denied such allegations, that the victim was an existing client of the particular social work services office and that he had also been assisted in applying for a disability grant long before the alleged incident. She further said The social worker assisting and continuously counselling the man was the one who blew the whistle and opened a case with the police on 18 May. However, when the suspect was not further prosecuted, the family was apparently not informed by the Police and turned to the social worker to write a report obviously seeking justice. She emphasised that a report in this specific regard was not needed to support the case and that the social worker had followed all the correct procedures. Social work supervisors will visit the family to inform them of what transpired, explain the legal processes and find out how to further assist in ensuring that justice is served, Van der Linde said. Provincial Police Spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe said investigations were still underway and the prosecutor was studying the content of the case. He condemned such acts and said mentally and physically challenged people should be treated with respect. Story: ENDY SENYATSI &gt;&gt;endy@observer.co.za