A new branch of Country TRAX Off-Road Riding Academy, a well-known internationally recognised off-road motorcycle rider training school, recently opened in Polokwane and motorcyclists with a thirst for adventure can sign up to learn how to handle their bikes safely both on and off-road. Fritz Boersma, owner and trainer at Country TRAX Polokwane, has more than 32 years experience in the motorcycle sport industry, including taking part in the GS Trophy and being part of the Gauteng Adventure Bike team. The GS Trophy is an event that BMW Motorrad hosts every second year and that has become the icon of international adventure riding events. The South African teams finished second in 2010 and 2014 and were crowned as champions in 2016 in Thailand. Boersma completed the Country Trax advanced training, which is internationally accredited by BMW Motorrad. He is also a fully qualified Country TRAX instructor. Any brand of Dual Purpose adventure bike which is road worthy with a licenced rider is welcome to attend the various training courses offered. It is not about racing, but rather about improving your own skills and appetite for adventure, as well as better understanding the bike s capabilities, he says. Country TRAX Polokwane currently offers Introduction to Off-Road riding courses with the next course taking place at the Capricorn Racing Club s track on 26 August. For R995 per rider, the course is designed for adventure (dual sport) bikes as well as off-road, enduro bikes and covers basic theory of how to ride a motorbike, how to balance the bike when riding, motorcycle throttle and clutch control, the correct body position on the bike, basic off-road riding skills, tips and techniques as well as emergency braking on gravel roads. For more information or to book a place on the course, Boersma can be contacted on 079 527 2791 or send an email to vundo4x4@lantic.net. Visit the Country Trax riding academy website at www.countrytrax.co.za. Story: MARKI FRANKEN &gt;&gt;marki.observer@gmail.com Fritz Boersma, owner and instructor at Country Trax Polokwane, braves a wet grassland during a recent outing near Lichtenburg. Fritz Boersma, owner and instructor at Country Trax Polokwane, braves a wet grassland during a recent outing near Lichtenburg.