The Portfolio Committee on Sport and Recreation has congratulated Caster Semenya for winning a gold medal in the women s 800 m race in a time of 1:55.16 at the final event of the World Athletics Championships in London on Sunday. Earlier in the week the reigning 800 m Olympic champion also won bronze in the 1,500 m during her first major final in that longer event. Semenya now has three World Championships gold medals to go with her two Olympic gold medals and equals Maria Mutola s World Championships record of three 800 m gold medals. Committee Chairperson Beauty Dlulane reportedly said it was encouraging to see local athletes excel in the manner they have both on the track and in field events. Many of our sporting heroes have put our country on the map and represented us as nation with enthusiasm. There can never be a better platform and a better foundation for Athletics South Africa and South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee to build for the future than the kind of performances our athletes have demonstrated in London. The committee and all South Africans truly appreciate the performances of all the athletes, she said. Sport, Arts and Culture MEC Onicca Moloi said they were proud of Semenya s efforts as she continues to make the province and the country proud. Despite the homophobic attacks on her, Caster remains very strong and she continues to humble her detractors. We are immensely proud of Caster s achievements and we hope that her performance will continue to inspire youngsters to consider sport as a career, Moloi said. The Speaker of Limpopo Legislature, Polly Boshielo also applauded Semenya for her feat in the Championships. It is comforting to see women succeeding despite being subjected to different forms of abuse. Caster Semenya s achievements will inspire girls and young women that it is possible to make it in life. She has brought back home the most sought after gold medal during Women s Month and we are humbled, said Boshielo. Story: Herbert Rachuene &gt;&gt;herbert.observer@gmail.com &nbsp;