The six recipients of the Regional Business Achievers Awards (RBAA) of the Limpopo branch of the Businesswomen s Association of South Africa (Bwasa) as well as the ten runners-up s roles in business and community service was acknowledged during a gala event at Sun Meropa last Thursday evening. The winner in the Emerging Cate go ry was Bakang Moeketsi, founder and Managing Director of Papyrus (Pty) Ltd, a company that manufactures and distributes the Pristine Brand of detergents. Her detergents are sold at retail and wholesale stores in Gauteng and Rustenburg. In Limpopo, she supplies detergents to the hospitality fraternity. Stella Mathumbu took the honours in the Established Category. She is Managing Director of Tiveka Game Lodge (Pty) Ltd. Tiveka Lodge, situated between Polokwane and Mokopane on the R101, was nominated by the South African Tourism Association to represent Limpopo at the 2017 Tourism Indaba. She also aids needy students with school funds. In the Corporate Category, Mampe Gololo emerged as winner. She joined Great North Transport (SOC) Ltd in January 2016 and her focus as Chief Financial Officer is service delivery, a responsibility that impacts on the lives of the broader community, scholars, businesses, ordinary citizens and government as a whole. Mampe is very passionate about people development. The winner of the Professional Category is Marcia Sibuyi, a dentist at Khensani Hospital. Her goal is to be in a position where she can create more jobs and that is why she has managed to sustain a business for the past nine years and serve the community in the process. Sibuyi says that since dentist ry services is not affordable to everyone, she is honoured to be part of a solution where these services are made available to all people at affordable prices. Sarah Galane was selected as winner of the Social Category. Born in Polokwane, she discovered a passion to empower women in communities but was later touched by the children left to fend for themselves during her years of working as a nurse. She decided to devote her time to uplifting the community and established the Takalani Nana Home Care Centre. Sarah acquired extensive knowl edge of child care and applied her knowledge at Samaritan Children s Home in Polokwane with competent staff and beautiful happy children. Bwasa s Honorary Award went to Khensani Maluleke. She was born in Sibasa and is currently residing in Giyani, serving as a Senior Pastor and founder of Solomon s Porch Christian Church. She has a hardworking and innovative spirit. Her greatest interest is unleashing potential in a woman s life, knowing well that an empowered woman can make a huge difference in the society at large. This all started in 1996 with a Community Based Organisation called Together as One , that was meant to empower the poor and marginalised people within the community of Giyani through annual advocacy programs. Story and photos: BARRY VILJOEN &gt;&gt;barryv.observer@gmail.com Bakang Moeketsi (Emerging Category). Stella Mathumbu (Established Category). Mampe Gololo (Corporate Category). Sarah Galane (Social Category).