When you walk up to the new Lexus LX 450d one almost feels intimidated by the size knowing it is a powerful machine which combines sumptuous luxury with true off-road capabilities. With a powerful V8 and sophisticated four-wheel-drive chassis systems the Lexus LX450d is perfect for travelling the unseen across Limpopo. The front of the LX 450d wears an even bolder rendition of the Lexus signature spindle grille, framed by elegant satin chrome trim and complemented by distinctive new standard LED headlights, turn signals and fog lights. The design includes roof rails, new 20-inch mesh wheels with a machine finish for a luxurious feel and sporty image. The interior is pure Lexus quality and packed with luxury features. Leading-edge safety, navigation and performance technologies make the new LX 450d as intelligent as it is elegant. Inside a new 12,3-inch display with Remote Touch Interface (RTI) heads a list of multimedia and connectivity upgrades that keep the LX 450d on the cutting edge of user technology. With the 12,3-inch screen, navigation gains full-screen map capability and there are menu shortcut buttons on the side of the screen. The second-row provides a USB port and the armrest features controls for the air conditioning and audio. The LX 450d is an ideal vehicle for getting away from it all while still staying informed, entertained and connected. A new standard feature, the panoramic view camera is an invaluable aid when hitching and manoeuvering a trailer, viewing the surround terrain when off-roading, and helping view the area around the vehicle when manoeuvering tight spaces. Under the hood lurks a powerful engine eager to deliver. The LX 450d s formidable 4,5 l V8 diesel engine produces 195 kW of power and 650 Nm of torque. With its V8 cylinder block die-cast in a lightweight yet strong aluminium alloy, it is also an engine that will last providing great reliability and durability. A six-speed automatic transmission offers enhanced performance and efficiency. Drive Mode Select allows the driver to tailor powertrain and suspension responses by using a dial on the console. The system also controls responses of the Adaptive Variable Suspension (AVS), which continually adjusts shock absorber damping rates while driving, helping to ensure optimal comfort, even when the road surface changes. Lexus never compromises when it comes to safety. Electronic Brake-force Distribution (EBD) works with Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) to ensure optimum brake-force is applied to each wheel. When starting off on a slope, Hill-start Assist Control (HAC) automatically maintains brake pressure to help prevent the LX from slipping forwards or backwards while Active Traction Control (ATRC) increases the LX s ability to grip the road, especially when starting off or accelerating on uneven or slippery surfaces. Corrective measures are applied the moment the risk of wheel-spin is detected, thereby maintaining traction. The LX is specified with a shield of airbags to help protect all occupants. In addition to dual-stage head airbags, there are knee and side airbags for the driver and front passenger. Second row outer seat passengers have side airbags, while curtain shield airbags complete the comprehensive protection. For more information visit Lexus Polokwane at 204 Tagore Street, Nirvana or contact them on 015 292 9500. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com The interior of the LX 450d is pure Lexus with ample luxury and safety features.