Northern Academy senior soccer team head coach, Hendrick Mukwevho believes his charges will win the Provincial u.15 Copa Coca-Cola provincial finals to be contested at NkowaNkowa Stadium, Giyani on Saturday. The school will be making a first appearance at the finals and will face Venda representatives Benny s Sport Academy, Mahwahwa Secondary School (Mopani) , Bela-Bela High School (Waterberg) and Selatole High School from Sekhukhune. Mukwevho said they have prepared well for the one day tournament and they can not afford to slip up. This is the tournament we have been waiting for. We have been trying to qualify for this tourney for the past three years with no luck. This is our time, this tourney provides a good platform for the boys to showcase talent and grab the attention of football scouts that will be in attendance on the day. We want to be the provincial representatives of the tournament at nationals and for us to achieve that we have to win on Saturday, Mukwevho said. The winning school will challenge provincial winners from the other provinces at the National Finals scheduled for 28 and 30 September in Mangaung. A statement released by the sponsor on Thursday quoted Phindi Phiri, Marketing Assets Manager at Coca-Cola South Africa to have said: We would like to wish all participating schools in Limpopo the best of luck this weekend. We hope they will continue showcasing great, quality football as we have seen in other provinces and that they will embrace their participation in this wonderful youth tournament, which promotes a culture of living a healthy lifestyle. Copa Coca-Cola is a global football development initiative that gives millions of young football fans the opportunity to come together and celebrate their passion for football. With over 1,3 million teenagers from more than 60 countries taking part, Copa Coca-Cola is recognised globally as the leading grassroots football programme in the world. Story: Herbert Rachuene &gt;&gt;herbert.observer@gmail.com &nbsp;