The Toyota Hilux has been the market leader in South Africa for over four decades with over a million units sold. It speaks to this range s reputation for quality, durability and reliability and the Toyota Hilux 2.4 GD-6 SRX is no exception. To achieve greater capability and unprecedented driving stability, a rigid frame with enlarged side sections and cross members that are larger and thicker have been created for the Hilux 2.4 GD-6 SRX. This model offers enhanced off-road performance and comfort thanks to the upgraded leaf spring suspension and shock absorbers, while suspension tuning was also optimised. The Hilux 2.4 GD-6 SRX offers excellent torque in all revolution ranges with significantly improved torque at low speed because of the well-developed diesel engine. An extended cruising distance is enabled by improved fuel efficiency while engine noise is reduced. Balanced torque and fuel efficiency is due to newly developed automatic transmissions with more steps and optimised gear ratios to maximise engine performance. The tough yet refined appearance, achieved by contrasting the front panel with its sturdy bumper section and the integrated look of the slender upper grille and LED headlamps, puts this model in a class of its own. It will also appeal to those considering a bakkie as an alternative to an SUV or passenger car. The vehicle s outer appearance also offers refinement and sensitivity with strong, dynamic body side wheel flares attractively integrated with the overall body. The stylish interior features an instrument panel with a unified design with free use of metallic decoration, giving the vehicle s interior a fortified but debonair appearance. Cutting edge luxurious features include an audio system with electrostatic multi-touch control panel and luxury seats. Specific features include an alarm, immobiliser and ultrasonic sensor, Anti-Lock Braking System (ABS), Brake Assist (BA), Electronic Brake Force Distribution (EBD) as well as driver and front passenger air-bags. The Toyota Hilux 2.4 GD-6 SRX is available at Limpopo Toyota Automark situated at 204 Tagore Street, Nirvana. Automark assists consumers in finding the best certified used vehicles in the market by having all vehicles undergo stringent quality testing. All Automark vehicles are backed by Toyota and certified by the dealer with an Automark Genuine Warranty available. The vehicles have guaranteed mileage, are guaranteed not stolen, the year model is guaranteed and all are subject to a check list. Story and photos: MARKI FRANKEN &gt;&gt;marki.observer@gmail.com The stylish interior features an instrument panel with a unified design.