Jessica Mac Donald currently sails the seven seas on freight ships with the rank of Second Navigation Officer despite her career choice being frowned upon while at high school. Mac Donald was born in 1988 and grew up in Tzaneen. The family moved to Polokwane during her Grade 9 year from when she attended Ho rskool Pietersburg until Grade 12 in 2006. It was during this time that her fellow students and teachers frowned upon her idea of becoming a professional sailor. She hastens to add that her mother has been the biggest driving force for her to chase her dreams. According to Mac Donald, she had the chance to visit a vessel s navigation bridge when she was 13 and decided on the spot that sailing would be her career of choice. After school she attended the Cape Peninsula University of Technology where she acquired a National Diploma in Maritime Studies. She passed cum laude and was awarded three Dean s Merits Awards and named Naval Architecture Student of the Year in 2008. In 2009 she was offered a spot at the Cadet Training Program of the Safmarine fleet and served on the Safmarine Ngami. She currently sails as a Second Navigation Officer but holds a certificate for Chief Officer Unlimited which, according to her, is one step away from the highest possible rank on a seagoing vessel, that of master mariner. Her duties include, among others, safe planning and execution of passage plans, monitoring cargo discharge and loading, maintaining the on-board hospital and providing medical assistance to crew as a designated medical officer, conducting on-board inspections regarding safety and security as a designated safety officer, maintaining and conducting emergency communications as a designated Global Maritime Distress and Safety System Officer and monitoring the vessel s performance and fuel efficiency. The vessels are operated with a crew of up to 23 seafarers. So all of us are knowledgeable and proficient to perform multiple duties and responsibilities, she explained. As she travels around the world through various weather systems, she said that she has never been scared while on-board the ship but that she gets anxious when they travel through pirate infested waters along the West and East African and Middle Eastern shores. Her most memorable journey was one that required of them to participate in a search and rescue operation in the waters south of Christmas Island near Malaysia. Mac Donald currently spends three to four months per year at sea and she describes life at sea as bitter sweet : The positive side of sailing is seeing different countries and cultures, but the down side is that when problems arise at sea, they have to be sorted out on the spot as you cannot go on land and replace broken parts. Other negative issues are working long hours, missing birthdays and weddings and constantly thinking about your family and friends when you are not working. Her message to other women who have trouble pursuing their dreams is: Fight for what you want. There will be setbacks and it will be hard but keep fighting. Do not depend on other people to determine your happiness and prosperity. Strive for perfection and do not fear failure. In her free time between contracts, she spends time catching up on the Game Of Thrones television series and enjoys traveling to South Africa as often as possible and host gatherings for her friends and family. Story: THINUS DU TOIT &gt;&gt;thinus@observer.co.za &nbsp; Some of Jessica Mac Donald s duties require her to train and make sure crew members are familiar with the safety precautions of the ship.