A massive spike of an estimated 123% has been seen in reports made by Limpopo whistle-blowers to Corruption Watch over the first half-year of 2017, compared to the half-year figures of the previous four years since 2012. The latest figures contributing to a total of 629 reports from Limpopo the past four and a half years are expected to be incorporated in a report to be released by Gauteng-based Corruption Watch in due course. The non-governmental organisation (NGO) is currently engaged in activations in Limpopo as one of four outlying provinces targeted to amplify its anti-corruption message and expand its footprint to communities where its presence has previously been limited. Increased public awareness Speaking from Johannesburg, Corruption Watch Deputy Director Lucky Menoe explained that the statistics could possibly point at an increased awareness among the public to raise alarm on corruption-related matters. The same counted for access to information likely to be the cause of a higher percentage in reports from an area based on its economic status, it was learnt. Menoe indicated that claims of bribery in specific allegedly committed by traffic, Police and Home Affairs officials and clinic nurses have thus far constituted 22% of cases reported from Limpopo to the corruption-fighting NGO since January 2012, when Corruption Watch was established. These counted among the top four main contributors to the staggering provincial statistics. Bribery rampant at Beit Bridge According to Menoe bribery seemed to be rampant at Beit Bridge border post where such acts allegedly played out in full view of Police officials. Underscoring a recent personal experience, Menoe referred to an incident during which one person skipped queues at customs on the South African side at Beit Bridge to collect ten passport stamps from a counter at a given time, an act repeated around ten times while he was watching. In order to fight acts of bribery they called on and encouraged the public to also be responsible and accountable by not creating opportunities for corruption while still pointing fingers at the corruptors, he mentioned. Claims of irregularities in procurement A total of 18% of all reports received from Limpopo since 2012 have been attributed to claims about irregularities in procurement in local government, and in specific the allocation of tenders, he said. They have identified a notion of those politically connected got tenders and kickbacks for tenders, Menoe added. It is being followed by 12% of cases reported from Limpopo that related to the embezzlement of funds implying the abuse of resources while irregularities in employment and nepotism claims made for 5% of all reports having been received from the province by Corruption Watch over the same period. Frustration over RDP housing allocations Examples of the reports received about corruption-related concerns were augmented by information based on concerns over RDP housing allocations of which 14% of reports emanated from Polokwane, 5% from Bela-Bela and Elias Motsoaledi municipal areas respectively and 4% from Greater Giyani municipal areas, it was learnt. The rest was spread out across the province, explained Menoe. Reports received from Limpopo pointed at waiting lists for housing allocations leading to frustration among members of the public, as did reports on money having been paid to municipal councillors in return for RDP structures, according to Menoe. Other than RDP housing allocations posing a huge problem in Limpopo, the province was also known for issues stemming from education-related matters such as the abuse of school feeding schemes, mismanagement of funds allocated to public schools and textbook distribution which they fought against alongside other activist organisations and conducted advocacy on, he explained. National picture The Limpopo figures form part of 4 391 reports of corruption totalling the number of reports received from whistle-blowers in the previous financial year, focussing largely on areas such as schools, housing, health and licensing sectors, from across the country. Stressing a need for a change in mindset and behaviour all round, Menoe expressed the opinion that South Africa was still going to witness a rise in the number of reports before seeing corruption going down. Today s activations scheduled for 07:00 to 10:00 at Westenburg Police Station and from 11:00 to 13:00 at Westenburg Sports Centre are set to address the state of corruption in Limpopo. Menoe is expected to be among the speakers, who will include representatives of the Public Protector s office and the South African Human Rights Commission. Tomorrow s programme is supposed to be held at the Polokwane Municipality from 07:00 to 15:00 while the final activation is due to take place at Seshego Circle Centre on Saturday from 09:00 to 14:00. Get in touch with Corruption Watch on 0800 023 456 or 072 013 5569. Story: YOLANDE NEL &gt;&gt;observer.yolande@gmail.com