Baroka Football Club s struggles in the Premier Soccer League (PSL) continued on Sunday when they were beaten 3-0 by Cape Town City Football Club in their 19th match of the league at the old Peter Mokaba Stadium. The result sees Kgoloko Thobejane s charges at the bottom of the league with 13 points after 19 matches. With 11 matches to go before the 2016/17 PSL season comes to an end, it remains to be seen if the Bakgakga will survive the PSL axe. Club Spokesperson, Jimmy Ngobeni has promised their fans that they won t be relegated. We will remain in the PSL. We are aware that our current position in the league is not a good position to be in. We believe in the technical team and we are confident that they will get the maximum points from the remaining matches, Ngobeni said. He explained that they could have won the match against Cape Town City Football Club but the team was focusing on the upcoming match against Polokwane City Football Club set for Sunday at the new Peter Mokaba Stadium. We conceded soft goals in the first and second half of the match and you could see the boys were not focused but thinking of the derby. It is going to be a big match, a battle of Limpopo teams and one we want to win, Ngobeni said. He also called on their supporters not to let down the team but come in their numbers to support them. We understand that most of them are not happy because the results are not coming, but we need their support. We are saying to them they must forget about the previous results and come to the match, Ngobeni said. Cape Town City s goals were scored by former Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates striker Lehohonolo Majoro and Sibusiso Masina in the first and second halves of the match. Story and photos: Herbert Rachuene &gt;&gt;herbert@mailbox.co.za Bakagkga defender, Punch Masenamela beats Cape Town City Football Club striker Lehlohonolo Majoro to the ball. Baroka Football Club striker, Siphamandla Sangweni looks for support with Cape Town City Football Club defender Tshepo Gumede fast approaching. Baroka Football Club Coach, Kgoloko Thobejane in a pensive mood after the match.