Following their goalless draw against Polokwa ne City Football Club at the new Peter Mokaba Stadium last Sunday, Baroka Football Club on Tuesday announced the appointment of former Mbombela United Coach Milton Dlamini as co-coach. Dlamini previously worked with former Bafana Bafana Captain, Neil Tovey at Thanda Zulu Royals and will be on the bench when Baroka goes up against FC Cape Town in the Nedbank Cup on Saturday in Cape Town. The club s Spokesperson, Jimmy Ngobeni said Dlamini will co-coach with Kgoloko Thobejane. &#8220;We need results and believe Dlamini will help us. He has coached lot of teams in the National First Division and has the capabilities. He did well at Mbombela, he has this admirable tactical approach and we believe he will work together with Thobejane,&#8221; Ngobeni said . This is the second coach to be appointed by Baroka following the suspension of Jacob Sakala after two matches in charge in February. Regarding their match against Polokwane City Football Club, Ngobeni said that they had played well they were unable to convert their chances. &#8220;It was a Limpopo derby and we couldn t afford to lose the match. We gave our all against City, and we could have won but we missed a lot of chances. That has been our downfall throughout the season and those are the things that Dlamini and Thobejane will work on,&#8221; Ngobeni said. He stressed they have to win their match against FC Cape Town in order to lift the morale of the team.&#8221; We have a good track record in the Nedbank Cup and we want to keep it that way. We have gone 10 matches without a victory. We just need to win one match and more victories will follow,&#8221; Ngobeni said. Story and photos: Herbert Rachuene &gt;&gt;herbert@mailbox.co.za Baroka Football defender Mzwanele Mahashe beats Polokwane City Football midfielder, Sammy Seabi to the ball by a slim margin. olokwane City Football Club Striker, Rodney Ramagalela aims to strike under the watchful eye of Baroka Football Club Captain, Olaleng Shaku.