Broadlands Estate Polokwane hosted a spectacular showcase of talent participating in the South African National Equestrian Schools Association (Sanesa) event this weekend. Riders and horses from across Limpopo gathered at the second round qualifiers to compete for selection to the Limpopo team. The team will take part in the Sanesa national championships in October. Riders participated in various disciplines including dressage, performance and working riding, equitation and show jumping. Lynne Cocks, owner of Broadlands Estate, explained that the event ran smoothly. She said the sport is growing in Limpopo compared to last year s entries and that she had noticed an increase in riders from the Waterberg area. She went on to explain that the schools uniforms continue to look better every year as more riders start competing in the sport. Two days prior to the weekend and for the first time in Limpopo history, Sanesa hosted the special needs riders from the Mitchell House Enrichment Centre in Polokwane where they could compete for a place in the Limpopo team. Horse riding has the therapeutic advantage where the rider learns to work with the animal to achieve certain goals according to Cocks. She went on to recall a number of learners she knew of that showed cognitive development through working with horses. You have to learn to cope with failure. Horses are temperamental animals and their feelings have to be taken into account when working with them as it can determine the outcome of your task at hand, especially in competitions. she explained. The Limpopo team will be announced in July after the third round qualifiers which will take place at Vivo on 6 to 7 May and the fourth round qualifiers which will be held at Broadlands Estate on 24 to 25 June. Story and photos: THINUS DU TOIT &gt;&gt;thinus@observer.co.za Anika Struwig from Laerskool Julian Miller in Groblersdal on Diamond in their equitation round. Mr Stitch flies over the beams with Marn Ebersohn Akademie rider Michaela Partridge on his back. Mariepskop Primary School rider Lara Leice ster on Sweetie Pie clears the obstacles during the Equitation round. Marika Steenkamp from Laerskool Pietersburg-Oos and Tiger Lilly approach the next obstacle in the equitation round. Entering the ring, Nare Mthobela from the Mitchell House Enrichment Centre Senior Class prepares for his round on the pony led by Broadlands handler Anna Monyela. Broadlands Estate horse handlers Johann van der Merwe (front) and Anna Monyela (back) ready to assist learners onto the horses. Mitchell House Enrichment Centre Life Skills learner Jareth Vickery finishes his round. Lebogang Ramaboa from Mitchell House Enrichment Centre s Life Skills class makes her educators proud during the Sanesa horse-riding qualifiers.