A light drizzle had photographers seek shelter to secure the safety of their cameras shortly before the arrival of guests for the opening of the Provincial Legislature last Friday. VIPs had to be welcomed with umbrellas as they got out of their cars to walk down the red carpet to where the guard of honour was waiting in Church Street for the inspection Premier, Stan Mathabatha and Nneke Ledwaba, Provincial Commissioner of Police. A group of cultural dancers from Sekhukhune and learners from Sekgosese Secondary and Hans Merensky High Schools as well as the civil guard, formed a guard of honour for the VIPs walking up to the Jack Botes Hall on the red carpet. Premier Stan Mathabatha poses with Limpopo Legislature Speaker Polly Boshielo and Limpopo Legislature Sergeant-at-Arms Hassan Ngobeni before Mathabatha s all important address to his people. After declaring the Jack Botes Hall a precinct of the Legislature and the acknowledgement of guests, Speaker Polly Boshielo requested the Premier to deliver the State-of-the-Province address (Sopa). Lerato Maroga sang Mathabatha s praises as he approached the podium. As Mathabatha was about to start his delivery of the Sopa a group of placard-carrying Democratic Alliance (DA) representatives stood up for a silent protest. The Speaker, having requested them several times to sit down, asked the Sergeant-at-Arms to accompany them from the hall. Members of the Legislature (MPL) Jossey Buthane of the Economic Freedom Fighters and DA Langa Bodlani demanded to know on a point of order on which grounds the guests were asked to leave, as they were not disturbing anybody or causing a ruckus. Bodlani, after several more disturbances on a point of order was asked to vacate the hall. He was followed by DA Provincial Leader Jacques Smalle, and DA MPL Susan Phala. Mathabatha then delivered his address. The debating of the Sopa took place on Tuesday at the Provincial Legislature in Lebowakgomo. Story: NELIE ERASMUS &gt;&gt;nelie.observer@gmail.com Photos: Yolande Nel &amp; Nelie Erasmus Limpopo Legislature Speaker Polly Boshielo leads the procession into Jack Botes hall, which served as legislative chamber during Friday s Sopa and Legislature opening. She is followed by Premier Stan Mathabatha. Legislature Speaker Polly Boshielo and Deputy Speaker Lehlogonolo Masoga. Speaker of the Legislature, Polly Boshielo declares Jack Botes Hall a precinct of the Provincial Legislature before the formal sitting begins. Premier Stan Mathabatha and Limpopo Police Commissioner, Nneke Ledwaba on the podium before inspecting the guard. Premier Stan Mathabatha is accompanied by Provincial Police Commissioner Nneke Ledwaba upon inspecting the guard in the legislative precinct. Premier Stan Mathabatha creates a moment for laughter before the start of the official part of the Sopa programme. Representatives of opposition parties in the Provincial Legislature. Silent protest by DA supporters. ANC Legislature members Soviet Lekganyane and Mirriam Ramadwa. Public Works, Roads and Infrastructure MEC Jerry Ndou and ANC Legislature member Shahida Shaik outside the chamber. Sport, Arts and Culture MEC Onicca Moloi is joined on the red carpet by Democratic Alliance Legislature member Langa Bodlani. Congress of the People Provincial Leader and Legislature member Patrick Sikhutshi waits to enter the legislative chamber. Head of Trade, Investment and Facilitation at Limpopo Economic Development Agency, Nepo Kekana, poses on the red carpet with guests from Mozambique and Gauteng, Inacio Mussanhane and Jacob Mkhwanazi. Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Provincial Secretary Jossey Buthane in party regalia. DA Councillors and guests Portia Maropane, Mari tte Pretorius, Maisaka Modiba, David Setje and Engelah Mamalatji. Chebeng Nelly Tsebe, Department Head of Community Safety and Security, Yvonne Mashele and Ayi Mokou, guests from Statistics SA. Gloria Mogale, Tebogo Boshomane, Lerato Maroga who delivered the praise song and Thapelo Mahlanga at the opening of the Legislature. Faith Masoga, wife of Legislature Deputy Speaker Lehlogonolo Masoga and Wendy Khosa. Limpopo Gambling Board Executive Officer Serobi Maja with Asnath Mabotja of the ANC. Mbangiseni Masia, traditional leader, and his wife Nyamugve. ANC Legislature members Goodman Mitileni and Maite Marutha on the red carpet. ANC member of the National Council of Provinces Hunadi Matheme, with ANC Legislature member Elias Nong. Economic Development, Environment and Tourism MEC Seaparo Sekoati and Polokwane Executive Mayor Thembi Nkadimeng. Lim 368 Mayor Marlene Vermaak Van Staden and Lim 368 Council Speaker Johann Abrie about to occupy their seats in the chamber. Stanley Ramaila, Executive Mayor of Sekhukhune District and Mandla Moropa, ANC Provincial Organiser. Joyce Mahlo, Speaker of Maruleng Municipality and Mongadi Monoleda, ANC Chief Whip of Maruleng Municipality. Nare Ngoepe and Fridah Nkondo are from the Vhembe District Municipality. Economic Development, Environment and Tourism Department Head Solly Kgopong and Sport, Arts and Culture Department Head Mabakane Mangena. Agriculture and Rural Development MEC Mapula Mokaba-Phukwana. Capricorn District Mayor John Mpe arrives for Sopa 17. Rendani Munyai, acting Provincial Chairperson of the EFF. Nakedi Lekganyane, Speaker of Capricorn District Municipality. Kuni Sarah Lamola, Speaker of Waterberg District Municipality. Eunice Marabo, Member of the Polo-kwane Municipal Mayoral Committee. Beauty Mutheiwana, Department Head of Education. Tony Ramabulana, King of the Vha-Venda. Thapelo Matlala of the South African Local Government Association. Benny Boshielo, husband to Legislature Speaker Polly Boshielo. ANC veteran Ike Maphoto. Kati Tlakula of the Department of Health. Prince Shingwenyana of Tzaneen Municipality Guest Percy Adams about to enter the venue. Willie Mathonsi, Chief Financial Officer of Gateway Airport Authority Ltd. Moses Lesudi and Victoria Maseka represented the Federation of Unions of South Africa. Malope Molebatji of the Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) in Limpopo. Essop Mokgonyana, Cosatu Provincial Chairperson and Makanti Mabala of the South African Communist Party (SACP) in Limpopo. A traditional dancer in Tsonga outfit entertains guests upon arrival at the Limpopo Legislature opening on Friday morning. A traditional dancer in Tsonga outfit entertains guests upon arrival at the Limpopo Legislature opening on Friday morning. &nbsp; &nbsp;