There is a new model of Mahindra ready to roam the streets of Polokwane and one cannot miss it as its battle tank design gives the new TUV300 a tough character in a compact mid-sized package. The TUV s imposing bumpers, and toughened, high-strength steel body allow it to tackle any challenge you may throw at it, along with the high ground clearance and large windows that provide you with maximum visibility as much in the city traffic as on the open road. Static-bending headlamps and chrome-accented fog lamps give it real street credits too. The premium interior provides superb levels of comfort and more space than expected in a mid-sized Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) of this class with seating for seven occupants. High quality fabric seats are provided throughout and finished in black and beige, with full lumbar support in the front row. The colour scheme is followed through to the rest of the interior and finished with chrome and metal accents, while the piano black hexagonal centre console boasts a 2-DIN Infotainment system with driver information, Bluetooth and USB/AUX connectivity. There are also convenient controls on the steering wheel for hands-free phone and audio functions. Every convenience has been considered, with armrests for driver and co-driver, power windows all round, multiple storage compartments, cup/bottle holders and mobile charging points in front and back. There is even a programmed voice alert system that reminds you to buckle up and other essential information, along with remote locking and keyless entry for added convenience. The engine is as tough and bold as the exterior. The TUV300 is powered by Mahindra s advanced 1.5 litre mHawk100 diesel engine, augmented by a two-stage turbocharger to provide 73 kW of power and a class-leading 240 Nm of torque. Fuel consumption is provided by the TUVs ECO mode option that provides a serious benefit in real driving conditions. This is enhanced with Mahindra s Micro-Hybrid technology with auto start/stop functionality for when the vehicle is stationery. Mahindra also did not compromise on safety features. The TUV300 features a toughened, high-strength steel body shell, complete with crumple zones, hydro-formed crush tips and strong side-intrusion beams for all-round impact protection. There are dual airbags in the front and Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) with Electronic Brake-force Distribution (EBD) comes as standard. Other features include Intellipark with reverse assist and a comprehensive digital immobiliser and anti-theft warning system. When it comes to the whole left behind in your wallet, it will come as a shock that the TUV and all its bells and whistles are available at only R229 995. For more information or a test drive visit MGM Motors Mahindra Polokwane at 105 Landdros Mar Street or contact them on 015 287 9660. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com The interior is spacious with up to seven seats.