Toyota recently introduced a compact high-rise, the C-HR which combines the practical agility of a hatchback with the unapologetic power of a full size Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) capable of taking you places during a daring adventure. The C-HR s design is confident and athletic inspired by the multiple dimensions of a precision-cut diamond and creates a sense of motion even at standstill. Muscular lines and an elevated cabin give the C-HR a look of compactness of a coup but with the lifted proportions and powerful lower body of an SUV. The front design asserts its power with its strong bi-halogen headlamps with LED daytime running lights. The rear lights are boomerang shaped which emphasise the vehicle s build while the LED high-mounted stop lamps accentuate the aggressively pointed tailgate and bumper. Toyota paid a lot of attention to detail when it came to the design of the interior which creates a striking, expansive space for a focussed and enjoyable drive. The high-riding position of the seats ensure better visibility and the driver orientated dashboard provides valuable information and the feeling that the driver stays in control. The piano black design panel, leather-like trimmings and upholstery on the armrests and ceiling create an air of sleek luxury. The interior also offers ample luggage space, chrome door handles, display audio with six speakers, a 12V accessory connecter, an electrochromatic interior rear-view mirror, dual mode auto air conditioner, cruise control and rain-sensing windscreen wipers. The C-HR is equipped with a 1,2 in-line four cylinder turbo engine. The turbocharger delivers high responsiveness and ensures interior quietness. The new D-4T system injects fuel directly inside the cylinder at high fuel pressure, ensuring that the C-HR remains fuel efficient but still guarantees to thrill. Three variants of the 1,2 are available with all delivering 85 kW of power and 185 Nm of torque. Fuel consumption on a combined cycle is measured at 6,3 litre per 100 km. The six-speed manual transmission ensures fuel economy and drive-power performance while also optimising the gear ratios for the torque characteristics of a turbocharged engine. A Continuously Variable Transmission (CVT) is also available. This is an automatic transmission that changes seamlessly through a continuous range of gear ratios to create quiet, strong and extended acceleration along with improved fuel economy. Toyota did not compromise on safety features and the C-HR is equipped with a range of brake control systems to help prevent accidents. Maximum safety technology has also been implemented to reduce the risk of injury during an accident. For more information or for a test drive visit Limpopo Toyota at 204 Tagore Street or contact them on 015 292 9500. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com Special attention was given to the interior of the C-HR.