Police have recently raised concern about the increase of mob justice especially in the rural parts of Limpopo where residents take the law into their own hands, but a hefty sentence on seven accused in a similar case dating back to 2015 will hopefully serve as warning to those engaging in such incidents. Provincial Police Spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe said seven accused were sentenced for the killing of Foster Mushwana and Mack Monyela in Ritavi on 20 September 2015. The suspects stormed the house of the two victims and dragged them to a nearby sports ground where they were severely assaulted. They were accused of terrorising members of the community by robbing them. Police arrested seven suspects on charges of murder, kidnapping and malicious damage to property. They received the following sentences: Moshe Moses Chabalala, 50 years imprisonment on two counts of murder; Risimati Martin Zwani Mlondobozi, 60 years imprisonment on two counts of murder, kidnapping and malicious damage to property; Friday Mlondobozi, 50 years imprisonment on two counts of murder; Lebo Sekhodiso, 60 years imprisonment on two counts of murder, kidnapping and malicious damage to property; Ivonne Bayana, 50 years imprisonment on two counts of murder; Masilo Aubrey Rakgoale, 50 years imprisonment on two counts of murder and Adonis Gezani Mashele, 50 years on two counts of murder. A recent incident of mob justice was also reported at Mecklenburg where two people were stoned and torched to death on Sunday. Ngoepe said Police are investigating the matter and have launched a manhunt for suspects responsible for the stoning of James Malapane and Doctor Maile, setting alight vehicles belonging to Malapane and the looting of his house at Sekopung Legabeng section. It is alleged that the community gathered to discuss the disappearance of 17-year-old Kgadi Dibakwana of Sekopung Village who was last seen with Maila. Maila reportedly told community members the girl was with Malapane but she was not there. The group started assaulting the victims also damaging Malapane s vehicles and house, Ngoepe said. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com