Police yesterday (Wednesday) confirmed the arrest of two of its members attached to the Police garage in Ladanna on a charge of theft of state vehicles. It was also established that the suspect in an attempted burglary into offices on the fourth floor of the local Police station last weekend had been apprehended. Two Police constables, Khathutshelo Radzuma and Rodney Hamese, are expected to appear in the Polokwane Magistrate s Court tomorrow (Friday) after allegedly stealing state vehicles from the Police garage. The Police in Limpopo has resolved to uproot corruption wherever it is manifested, including within the service. The members were arrested during an intelligence led tactical operation which resulted in the recovery of a state Volkswagen Amarok which was stolen from the state garage last week. The vehicle was recovered from the premises of the brother of one of the constables in Polokwane, Provincial Police Corporate Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo said. He added that investigations are currently at an advanced stage to recover a Nissan double cab bakkie allegedly stolen by the same suspects during a previous incident. Polokwane Police Spokesperson Lesiba Ramoshaba yesterday also confirmed that a suspected burglar had been arrested on the fourth floor of the Police building last Friday evening. According to a source the suspected burglar wore a balaclava and gloves and was in possession of a crowbar. The fourth floor of the Police building hosts detectives and most dockets. It is believed that the suspect s mission was to steal dockets, the source said. Ramoshaba said the 32-year-old suspect was arrested by Police officers doing routine checks in the building. The suspect is from Ga-Semenya in Moletjie and was found in possession of apparatus usually used during break-ins. He will appear in the Polokwane Magistrate s Court again on 24 May, Ramoshaba said. He could not provide the suspect s identification. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com