During its last Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) meeting, the leadership of the South African Communist Party (SACP) in Limpopo reflected on the national and provincial political situation. As a result they urged the provincial government to, among others, act swiftly and implement the recommendations of a Public Protector s report to root out maladministration within the Department of Transport, Safety and Liaison. In a statement released afterwards the party in the province indicated it had further called on Premier Stan Mathabatha to act against those implicated in the Public Protector s report probing a questionable appointment of a service provider. The structure simultaneously indicated that it would intensify its anti-corruption campaign to protect public assets and resources and ensure quality service delivery to the working class. On the release of reports pertaining to probes into the affairs of municipalities, the SACP in the province called for the immediate release of Special Investigation Unit (SIU) reports and implementation of recommendations dealing with alleged corruption and maladministration. Corruption and maladministration deprive our people of quality service and the benefits of our democracy. SACP Provincial Secretary Gilbert Kganyago informed Polokwane Observer that their call pertained to reports on Capricorn, Vhembe and Sekhukhune District Municipalities as well as Elias Motsoaledi and Mogalakwena Local Municipalities. In addition the meeting resolved to strengthen the alliance, to support progressive provincial government programmes and fight against all forms of factionalism in Limpopo, the party leadership stated. In addition it also addressed the recent appointment of former Eskom Chief Executive Officer Brian Molefe as ANC Parliamentarian and said it strengthened the public outcry about alleged corruption and the capture of the State by the parasitic bourgeoisie. The structure expressed the opinion that it was specifically against the principle of legality where someone was being implicated in a report on alleged corruption and at the same time promoted. It moved further afield to address the anarchy of opposition parties in Parliament, stating that the continuous portrayal of the ANC-headed alliance as an enemy of the people was a cheap politicking ploy by the opposition to discredit the revolutionary capacity of the movement. We call on the working class, the masses of our people, to reject this narrative by the opportunistic opposition parties in Parliament. With regards to other issues closer to home the party leadership condemned the ongoing evictions and perceived maltreatment and exploitation of farm workers in the Tolwe, Maasstroom, Sebarakoma, Swartwater and Biesfontein areas in the Capricorn and Waterberg Districts respectively. The party will embark on a vigorous campaign to oppose court applications by the farmers to evict the workers. Story: YOLANDE NEL &gt;&gt;observer.yolande@gmail.com