A kademie Reformia hosted a successful bulletjierugby and mini-netball festival on its sports grounds on Saturday where 960 youngsters put their talent and skills to the test before a huge crowd of enthusiastic supporters. The learners, from primary schools across the province also had the opportunity to meet learners from other schools, bond and foster new sporting relationships. Hennie Combrink, Headmaster at Akademie Reformia and co-organiser of the event said the day was about development and another opportunity for learners to learn to love the game. Normally we don t keep scores at such events. We just want learners to enjoy themselves and have fun. We also wanted to give young learners from various schools the opportunity to learn how to play rugby and netball. We want them to use the talents God gave them and also by giving God the glory while enjoying themselves on the sporting grounds, Combrink said. Among the participants were Laerskool Pietersburg-Suid, Laerskool Pietersburg-Oos, Laerskool Krugerpark, Erica Kleuterskool, Curro Heuwelkruin, Messina Laerskool and Mitchell House. Combrink stated that they had been impressed with the support shown by the parents who came in numbers on the day. We had 960 rugby and netball boys and girls who participated and about 3 000 spectators. We are very impressed with the number of people who supported the event. We are truly grateful to everyone who attended. Combrink also informed that they were enjoying their new premises into which they moved in 2015. We were previously based at the Gere formeerde Kerk Pietersburg-Noord and we used to make use of Ho r Tegniese Skool Tom Naude s sport facilities. The aim has always been to have our own premises with our own sport facilities. This became a reality in 2015 and we are happy. Asked about other main sport events they have lined up this year, he pointed out that they will host a seven-a-side rugby, netball and hockey later this year. Story and photos: Herbert Rachuene &gt;&gt;herbert@mailbox.co.za Chantelle Barnard from Laerskool Pietersburg-Oos and Kirsten Mckenzie from Mitchell House School tussle for the ball during their u.6 netball match. Jayden Mostert from Learskool Krugerpark tries to evade Daniel Basson and Regardt Els from Laerskool Pietersburg-Oos during their u.8 rugby match. Tlou Rammutla from Curro Heuwelkruin tries to run away from his opponents with the ball during the u.8 match against Laerskool Pietersburg-Suid. Lefa Ma ma bolo from Mit chell House School tries to find his way with the ball during their u.8 match against Laerskool Pietersburg-Oos. Thando Shoba from Mitchell House School on his way to the try line during their u.8 match against Laerskool Pietersburg-Oos.