Baroka Football Club is still not out of the woods in the Premier Soccer League (PSL) where they remain in last place following their 2-2 draw against Kaizer Chiefs at the new Peter Mokaba Stadium last week. The team, promoted to the league after winning the National First Division last year, has yet to win a match after returning from the Festive Season break and will have to go all out to improve their precarious situation when they take on Super Sport United at Lucas Moripe Stadium in Pretoria on Saturday. Since beating Cape Town City Football 2-1 in October the Ga-Mphahlele based outfit has been struggling to keep up with other teams in the elite league and losing matches that they could have won. Of the six matches played they lost two and drew four. After the Super Sport clash their remaining matches will see them going up against Free State Stars, Maritzburg United, Orlando Pirates, Bloemfontein Celtic, Mamelodi Sundowns and Golden Arrows. Club Spokesperson Jimmy Ngobeni has admitted that their upcoming matches will be tough but promised to continue fighting for survival. We are aware that we can t win all the matches but we need points. Our supporters are worried about our position in the league and we can assure them that we are not going to be relegated. We are not thinking about relegation, we are focusing on ourselves and how to avert the situation, Ngobeni said. Asked if poor planning for the PSL season was one of the reasons they find themselves in this situation, Ngobeni mentioned injuries and suspensions as some of the factors that contributed to their demise in the league. We had lots of injuries and suspensions at the beginning of the season and that caused instability in the team. The league this season is tough. All the teams are doing well. The teams vying for the title are a point away from each other. The same is with the teams at the bottom of the league, they are one or two points away from each. That shows the intensity and competiveness in the league. All we need is two victories and we will change the outcome of the league, Ngobeni said. Story: Herbert Rachuene &gt;&gt;herbert@mailbox.co.za &nbsp;