A light drizzle did not deter athletes from seven of the province s top schools to give their best during the 2017 Inter High Athletics hosted by Northern Academy at the old Peter Mokaba Stadium last Friday. More than 700 athletes participated in the successful meeting and several records were improved. Ho rskool Pietersburg (PHS) attained the first position overall and also won the boys and girls categories. Ho rskool Merensky followed suit in second place and Ho rskool Louis Trichardt was third. Ho rskool Frans du Toit was fourth overall, followed by Ho rskool Eric Louw, Ho r Tegniese Skool Tom Naud , and Northern Academy respectively. PHS s Shane Botha and Ho rskool Merensky s were named Victrix Ludorum and Victor Ludorum. In the girls category, Rinelda van der Linde and Shane Botha, both of PHS were the Best Junior Field and Best Junior Track athletes respectively, while Carla Swanepoel of Ho rskool Eric Louw was named Best Senior Field Athlete and Sancha van Niekerk of Ho rskool Eric Louw Best Senior Track Athlete of the day. Among the boys the best performances came from Locare Madzhie of Ho rskool Louis Trichardt and Andru Miller of Ho rskool Me rensky who were named Best Junior Field and Best Junior Track athletes respectively, while Richard Lambert of Ho rskool Louis Trichardt and Noko Malatji of Ho rskool Merensky were the Best Senior Field and Best Senior Track athletes respectively. Petrus Dumisa, Executive Head of Northern Academy told Polokwane Observer that the school was privileged to host the occasion. We want to thank everybody that was involved with the event for their hard work and the effort that made this day a marvelous event. Athletics is a sport of great variety and one that offers something for everyone, from javelin throwing, the event that inspired me most, to running the 3 000 m, Dumisa said. Head Organiser of the event, Frans Jacobs of Northern Academy said it had been a huge logistical operation with more than 700 athletes and 64 officials taking part. Every event started on time and officials of all seven schools were involved. Planning started during August last year, Jacobs explained. According to Jacobs, the inclement weather leading up to the event was a matter of great concern but the light drizzle did not affect the athletes performance. Jacobs said that it was Northern Academy s first hosting of an event of that magnitude. We are extremely grateful to the athletes, officials, spectators and our sponsors that made this event possible, he said afterwards. Story and photos: BARRY VILJOEN &gt;&gt;barryv.observer@gmail.com &nbsp; For the full results, follow this link INTER HIGH 2017 Marcelle de Villiers of Ho rskool Pietersburg wins 100 m for boys u.14. Pieter Hoogenboezem of Ho rskool Pietersburg, boys u.16 discus. Marco Pratt of Ho rskool Pie tersburg wins the 400 m for boys u.14. Michelle Claassens of Ho rskool Pietersburg wins the girls u.14 400 m. Piet Maree of Ho rskool Pietersburg, boys u.17 long jump. Christine Rossouw of Ho rskool Pie tersburg, girls u.16 javelin. Canseus Saayman of Ho rskool Pietersburg, boys u.15 shot put. Keegan Menzies of Ho rskool Pietersburg wins the boys u.15 sprint over 100 m. Cansa fundraisers David Booth and Ren Robberts with volunteer Waydene Vorster, Grade 9 learner from Ho rskool Pietersburg, ensure that there are enough hamburgers for all. Chanel Cloete of Ho rskool Pietersburg, girls u.16 high jump. Zandri Swartz of Ho rskool Pietersburg, girls u.16 high jump. Rickus Nel of Ho rskool Pietersburg, boys u.16 discus. Chinique Brown of Ho rskool Pietersburg wins the girls u.15 sprint over 100 m. Northern Academy cheer leaders George Nkadimeng, Cynthia Ntlemu, Valentine Mashishi, Wonder Takarova, Rosa Mokonyama and Sharifa Mukansi ensure that supporters give their best. Frans Jacobs, Head Organiser of the 2017 Inter High Athletics with Petrus Dumisa, Executive Head of Northern Academy. Chokana Thobakgale of Northern Academy, boys u.16 high jump. Dylan Botha of Ho r Tegniese Skool Tom Naud , boys u.14 long jump. Leandri Peyper, HTS Tom Naud , shot put u.15. Cindi Khaoki of Ho r Tegniese Skool Tom Naud , girls u.16 javelin. Tom Naud Technical High School cheer leaders. Ho rskool Merensky s cheer leaders. Ruan van der Schyff of Ho rskool Merensky, boys u.15 shot put. Arnu T nsing of Ho rskool Merensky, boys u.16 discus. Arnu T nsing of Ho rskool Merensky, boys u.16 discus. Seth Lathane of Ho rskool Merensky wins the boys u.16 hurdles over 400 m. Eric Gobey of Ho rskool Frans du Toit, boys u.16 discus. Klarissa Coetzee of Ho rskool Frans du Toit, girls u.15 long jump. Lefa Khosa of Ho rskool Frans du Toit wins the boys u.19 1 500 m. The cheer leaders of Ho rskool Frans du Toit. Jay-Houghan Ramango of Ho rskool Louis Trichardt wins the boys u.16 high jump. Ho rskool Louis Tri chardt cheer leaders. Tebogo Masekele of Ho rskool Louis Trichardt, girls u.15 long jump. Christelle Coetzer of Ho rskool Louis Tri chardt wins the girls u.15 400 m. FC Phillipson of Ho rskool Louis Trichardt, boys u.15 shot put. Ho rskool Eric Louw cheer leaders. Bhekimpilo Dzhombe of Ho rskool Eric Louw, boys u.14 long jump. Success Phiri of Ho rskool Eric Louw wins the boys u.17 hurdles over 400 m.