Polokwane Observer became part of South Africa s crime statistics when a burglarly during the course of Sunday night robbed the company of its electronic footprint. It contributed to a wave of incidents targeting a host of entities in the city centre the past few days. For Polokwane Observer it has been the first burglary in its 13 years of existence and theft of servers, more than 20 computers and studio equipment to the value of nearly R250 000 robbed the business of equipment that has been developed over years and which most likely would require it to be reconstructed over time at great cost and effort. When faced with the reality posed by empty desks in ransacked offices early Monday morning, Polokwane Observer Managing Director Willie Esterhuysen couldn t fathom that this week s edition would indeed materialise. However, a makeshift production line was instantly set up with a team of journalists, advertising representatives, graphic designers and administrative staff getting to work. From the interior of cars, under a lean-to, next to the swimming pool, in the boardroom and the on-site studio staff were feverishly re-producing and generating content on laptops and tablets while the Police continued their investigations. A mere few hours later it was business as usual. In his capacity as a member of an ever expanding business community Esterhuysen expressed concern over the increase in the type of crime targeting companies, which could have a devastating effect on the economy if the Police didn t intervene drastically and dramaticaly. He further raised the view that security companies should keep up with changing trends and not rely on conventional equipment alone to keep their clients and their possessions safe. He stressed that business people wouldn t tolerate the undiminished continuation of the onslaught on the local economy. He continued saying he would want to see the Police initiating a meeting with business people to address issues, but added that it should be a spontaneous initiative on the part of the Police. Esterhuysen concluded by posing the question as to the efforts of the local business chamber to address the problem at highest level. Story: YOLANDE NEL &gt;&gt;observer.yolande@gmail.com