A t only 19 Kgaogelo Sekgota from Mmotong wa Perekisi village outside Seshego can boast landing a career opportunity that many of his peers can only dream of. This rising soccer star has signed a two year contract with Lithuania based Stumbras Kaunas Football Club last week. Sekgota, formerly with ABC Motsepe League campaigners Polokwane United Academy is thrilled at the prospect of plying his trade in Europe. It was always my childhood dream to play overseas and I am happy to be living that dream. I must retaliate that I am totally ecstatic at this amazing opportunity to be playing on an international platform. I am still young and hope to learn the different ways of playing. I was told that the training regime there is hectic. The standard is very high. The culture is apparently massively different. I am looking forward to the adventure and I promise to make the best of every moment, Sekgota said. According to his former mentor Bally Smart: Sekgota has bags of tricks and a cultured left foot with pace and could be regularly seen terrorising defences in the ABC Motsepe League Limpopo Stream. He joined Polokwane United Academy in 2012 and he had appeared for the Academy s u.19 team at the prestigious BayHill Premier Cup in 2015 and even scored in the 1-1 draw against Ajax Cape Town s u.19 team in the quarter finals of the Plate Series in where United were knocked out on penalties. He also mentioned that before his departure, Sekgota had concrete offers from National First Division (NFD) team and also caught the attention of teams in the Russian and Greek premier leagues but opted for Stumbras Kaunas. He joins the list of South African based players who are playing trade in Europe such as Kamogelo Mokotjo (Twente Football Club, Holland), Thulani Serero (Ajax Football Club, Holland), Kermit Erasmus ( Rennes Football Club , France), Bongani Zungu (Victoria de Guimaraes Football Club, Portugal) and Luther Singh (Braga Football Club, Portugal). Stumbras is a professional football club which plays in A Lyga, the top tier of Lithuanian football. It was founded in 2013 on the basis of the National Football Academy of Lithuania. The club is enjoying a quick rise, reaching the heights of Lithuanian football in a fairly short period of time. The club plays its home matches at the Darius and Gir?nas Stadium (capacity 9,180) and use NFA stadium in Kaunas (capacity 500) as alternative. Story: Herbert Rachuene &gt;&gt;herbert@mailbox.co.za &nbsp;