The Peugeot 2008 has been around for quite some time leaving behind a clear footprint of innovation and sophisticated technology but now with a facelift and equipped with a 1,6 litre diesel engine the 2008 is set to turn heads and deliver impressive performance with exceptional fuel economy. The 2008 is a Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) built with strength and character. The striking new exterior design is complemented with vibrant new paint finishes and a robust character incorporates all the qualities of a compact SUV. Its new vertical front features a fully integrated grille with an embossed pendant design that surrounds the central Peugeot lion badge. The horizontal bonnet and the rear sports spoiler enhance the sophisticated, sportier look while front and rear scuff plates and roof bars provide SUV practicality. Wheel arch extensions suggest all terrain capabilities and provide more protection for the bodywork. Peugeot is known for sophisticated and sleek interiors in their vehicles. As with the 2008 the interior offers innovative lifestyle technology to ensure maximum convenience and an intuitive interior layout reinvents the driving experience. The interior features soft-touch dashboard with subtle chrome highlights and an ergonomic design, leather trimmed steering wheel and aviation style handbrake. The compact sports steering wheel sits lower than the traditional design and means that your arms are both lower and closer together. This not only reduces driver fatigue but offers more precise steering and improved manoeuvrability. The head-up display allows driver information to be viewed above, rather than though the steering wheel and is therefore visible without taking your eyes off the road. In addition the large multifunctional colour touch screen places all the functionality at your fingertips. Peugeot is a leading manufacturer of low emission vehicles and more than half of its global sales are for vehicles emitting less than 140 g of CO2 per kilometre. Peugeot has also led the way on many breakthrough technologies including Stop/Start and a new generation of diesel engines. The diesel particulate filter, launched in 2000, is the most efficient solution in the automotive industry today. The most recent, the additive particulate filter eliminates 99,9% of the particulates emitted by a diesel engine. The 1,6 Hdi delivers 68 kW at 4 000 rpm of power and 230 Nm of torque at 1 750 rpm. It is coupled with a five speed manual gearbox and offers 4 litre of diesel per 100 km on a combines cycle. Safety is also a big part of Peugeot s identity. In case of an accident up to six airbags will protect occupants. Airbags are fitted in the front, side and upper frame (curtain airbags). The 2008 has a high level of active safety features and is equipped with Anti-lock Braking System (ABS), Electronic Stability Control (ESC), Hill Assist, Emergency Brake Assist (EBA), Electronic Brake-force Distribution (EBD), Anti-slip Regulation (ASR) and automatic activation of hazard light in emergency braking. For more information contact MGM Motors Peugeot Polokwane on 015 287 9660 or visit them at 106 Landdros Mar Street. Story and photos: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com The interior of the Peugeot 2008 is spacious packed with luxury and comfort features.