T he next set of keys you aim to put in your pocket should be that of a Suzuki not just because the brand was recently announced as Coveted Brand of the Year at the recent Cars.co.za Consumer Awards, but two of its models also walked away as winners in their respective categories. The Suzuki Vitara 1,6 was announced as Compact Family Car of the Year while the Celerio 1,0 claimed the award as Budget Car of the Year. Suzuki describes the Celerio as an extra-large small car and takes the proverb dynamite comes in small packages to a whole new level. This superb piece of engineering may be small in body, but it s loaded with big ideas and huge potential to make everyday life richer and much more fun. With an unexpectedly roomy cabin and larger than you would expect luggage space, the Celerio not only delivers the ease of driving that compact cars are known for, but also sets a new standard for compact cars exceeding all expectations. The Celerio s 1,0-litre petrol K10B engine realises efficiency through various weight and friction reductions while maintaining dynamic performance. By reducing the number of components in the engine unit, mounts, radiators, and fuel tank, a compression weight reduction was achieved. Changing the valve shaft diameter and reducing spring-load has also reduced friction. Maximum output of the Celerio is measured at 50 kW of power at 6 000 rpm and 90 Nm of torque at 3 500 rpm. One can enjoy extra mileage with only 4,7 litres per 100 km on the manual transmission model and 4,6 litres per 100 km on the Automated Manual Transmission (AMT) model. When you opt for the Vitara you will get an authentic compact Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) with rugged lines and enhanced driving dynamics. The all new Vitara features smaller dimensions that meet contemporary needs. It incorporates Suzuki s cutting-edge AllGrip technology, comfortable on-road performance and genuine off-road capability to fully show off its changes in body size and powertrain. The essence of the Vitara is revealed through the clamshell bonnet, front bumper as well as the flared and modernised fender garnish to give the front end a look of solidity. An extensive range of accessories, interior trims to mix and match and two-tone exterior colours to choose from, take on a whole new meaning in the Vitara. With 375 litres of luggage space, 60:40 split folding rear seat capability and a movable luggage board, the Vitara was designed to accommodate the various activities of life. The powerful and responsive 1,6 litre engine produces confident driving on busy city roads as well as winding lanes. The reduced friction and weight in the engine ensure exceptional fuel economy of 5,8 litres per 100 km for the five speed manual transmission and 6,0 litre per 100 km on the six speed automatic. The engine offers 86 kW of power at 6 000 rpm and 151 Nm of torque at 4 400 rpm. For more information on these award winning vehicles contact BB Motor Group Suzuki Polokwane on 015 197 0099 or visit their showroom at 91 Landdros Mar Street. Story: BARRY VILJOEN &gt;&gt;barryv.observer@gmail.com The Budget Car of the Year Award went to the Suzuki Celerio.