Vhembe sport stars Benny s Sports Development and Academy continued their rise to stardom as a leading football-playing school in the province after they were crowned the Copa Coca-Cola Limpopo Champions, for the third time in five years. The academy won the penultimate provincial finals of the 2017 edition of the Copa Coca-Cola u.15 Football Tournament hosted by Coca-Cola, in conjunction with the South African Schools Football Association (Sasfa), held at the NkwowaNkowa Stadium outside of Tzaneen on Saturday. The team topped the tournament log with eight points after winning two matches and drawing two to book a spot at the national finals set for Mangaung from 28 to 30 September. Livhuwani Netshikulwe, Northern Academy defender, was identified as The Heart of the tournament (Best Player) and will join the Which Part Will You Play All-Star team, representing Limpopo at the national finals. This central defender showed great character and leadership throughout the tournament and was instrumental in leading his team to a hard fought second-place finish with six points. I am really proud of myself today for being chosen as The Heart. My team and I were aiming to win the tournament today and go all the National Finals, unfortunately things just didn t go our way. We will come back stronger and try again next year. I am happy that I can represent the school at this year s national finals, the Grade 9 learner said after the tournament. Benny s stands a chance of winning R60 000 to be used towards the development of their school s educational or sporting facilities. Head Coach of Benny s Sports Academy, Moses Muthelo said they are looking forward to do the province proud at the national event. We fought hard at the provincial event. It was not easy all the schools representing their respective districts gave their all. We are aware that the national event is not going to be easy but we are ready for the challenge, Muthelo said. Phindi Phiri, Marketing Assets Manager at Coca-Cola said: Well done to all the schools that took part over the weekend. We were treated to a nail-biting end to the day on Saturday which eventually saw Benny s School triumph ahead of Northern Academy. We wish the school the best of luck at the National Finals of the Copa Coca-Cola tournament later this month. We are thrilled to be continuing assisting all schools in developing their football skills and promoting a culture of a healthy living lifestyle through this youth tournament. Story and photos: Herbert Rachuene &gt;&gt;herbert.observer@gmail.com Livhuwani Junior Netshikulwe from Northern Academy tries to trap the ball with his chest during their match against Bela-Bela High School. Mashoto Nyaka (in red) from Northern Academy controls the ball while being closely watched by Jan Ramoroka from Bela-Bela High School. Archiebold Sebola (in black) from Bela-Bela High and Matsobane Poto from Northern Academy tussle for the ball. Livhuwani Netshikulwe celebrates his Player of the Tournament award with Simba Marumo, Copa Coca-Cola ambassador.