The new Ford Focus is smarter inside and out and when you start browsing through the feature list, you will realise what value for money means as it offers all the bells and whistles expected from an expensive German brand. The new Ford Focus Trend is stocked with a variety of safety features to assist the driver and to keep occupants safe whether driving in city traffic or taking a long journey. When it comes to the exterior design, the Ford Focus is sleek and features a new elegant grille and an athletic shape ensuring that its presence is always felt. The adaptive Bi-Xenon headlamps have been designed to be as functional as they are beautiful. The intelligent headlamp system detects different road conditions and selects the appropriate beam pattern for enhanced illumination and the static cornering headlamps illuminates the inside of a corner when you turn the steering wheel into the direction of turn. The dynamic personality of the new Focus continues in the interior. One can sit back and appreciate and enjoy the enhanced instrument panel and new-design steering wheel. The driver-orientated cockpit wraps around so you will feel completely at one with the car, technology and features at you fingertips. Technology such as a parking system gets you in and out of tight spaces. Active Park Assist (APA) steers the vehicle into parallel or perpendicular parking spaces just 20% longer or wider than the car. By the push of a button the innovative system locates a suitable space as you drive past. It then automatically steers you in while you only control the accelerator, brake and gears. The new Ford Focus features a rear-view camera which is activated automatically the moment you select reverse gear. This allows the driver to see objects behind the car while special guidance graphics indicate the width and centre line of the car based on the steering angle. The Ford Focus further features Land Departure Warning which is designed to recognise when you approach the road marking without using the indicator and alerts you with vibrations through the steering wheel. The system is designed to apply steering torque back towards the lane you were in to help you recognise that corrective action is required. When it comes to long journeys the Driver Alert System is designed to inform you if it detects driving behaviour that indicates a drop in alertness levels. Initially a warning icon is displayed in the instrument cluster but when driving alertness further declines the message is repeated combined with a chime. The Ford Focus is powered by a 1,0 litre EcoBoost engine which provides more power and better fuel economy. This engine has received eight international Engine of the Year awards in four years and defines drivability, performance, economy, refinement and technology for its class. The engine delivers 92 kW of power and 170 Nm of torque. For more information on the new Ford Focus Trend and the features it hosts visit Ford Polokwane on the corner of Schoeman and Rissik street or contact them on 015 287 1700. Story and photos: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com The interior is purely Ford with newly designed steering wheel.