A reported altercation allegedly leading to threats to commit a brutal killing and the challenge to take up guns last week seemingly fuelled racial tension in a Polokwane neighbourhood that has been dubbed Little Nigeria . Crime-related problems in Penina Park have persisted for time now and have apparently led to a situation resulting in some residents apparently considering relocation, leaving behind all that is familiar to move out of a residential area plagued by alleged under-aged sex in communal places, drug sales, public drinking, malicious damage to property due to drunk driving, torturing noise levels, presence of undocumented foreigners and racial hatred. Through a reliable channel it was established that matters relating to persistent concerns at troublesome hotspots, such as the Waterland complex and the shopping nucleus on the corner of Timbavati and Limpopo Avenue in Penina Park, would be prioritised by the Police in future, following a Community Policing Forum (CPF) meeting on Tuesday evening. A source said the issues have served on Tuesday evening s agenda and an undertaking was given by the Police in attendance for it to receive priority attention. Pleas for help sounded out this week from a resident who happened to stumble upon an encounter between members of the community and the CPF accompanied by the Police &#8211; at Penina Park Shopping Complex last Wednesday evening. During the incident that panned out at around 21:00 a threat was allegedly made by a community member in his Twenties to douse a CPF member in petrol and set him alight in the presence of the Police, who reportedly failed to act against the perpetrator. The female resident complained about lack of action on the scene and said she didn t have much hope for South Africa if the highest authority looked on as incidents of unacceptable racial discourse played out. Video footage of the ensuing verbal attack captured and forwarded to Polokwane Observer protects the identity of the attacker, but his profound use of foul language and overall revolutionary song in the background can clearly be distinguished. From another source it was learnt that one of the community members identified as the main instigator &#8211; would have simultaneously challenged CPF members on the scene to produce their guns to enter into a war, shouting that apartheid was over and that the country belonged to them. The source informed Polokwane Observer that an earlier call for assistance from two CPF members requiring reinforcements after the one had initially been assaulted, had resulted in a CPF contingent arriving at the shopping complex with the Police. They reportedly confronted a sizeable group of some 30 men seeming to have grown from a gathering of around 10 people, who allegedly entered into a row after being taken on for perceived consumption of alcohol in public and noise disturbance. Highlighting hotspots in the area, he pointed out that for safety reasons he avoided supporting the business concerns in the shopping complex, which doubled as meeting place and party spot long after the liquor store on the premises closed in the evenings. The hub was also situated along a thoroughfare from Waterland to the Church Street extension granting easy access to the Lebowakgomo road at night, the source explained. The argument about the shopping complex being considered a trouble spot was corroborated by a resident who said lack of hang-out in the area contributed to the problem. It was learnt that foreign nationals suspected of engaging in drug deals have moved out of the area around December, but that one of two residences under community surveillance was now seen to serve as party base for persons who apparently abandon the gathering place at the shopping complex later on in the evenings. Likening Penina Park to Little Nigeria , the last word is from the concerned female resident saying they would continue to put pressure on Polokwane Municipality to ensure the delivery of services and the safety of residents, alternatively demanding security features like boom gates to keep the community safe. Provincial Police spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe said last Wednesday s matter in Penina Park had been prompted by the two groups not agreeing on something unknown. The Police were called to the scene and they managed to quell the situation and no case was reported. They were also warned not to engage in fighting and they agreed. According to Ngoepe it had been agreed during Tuesday evening s CPF meeting that the Police would intensify patrols in the area. He urged residents of Penina Park to call the acting Visible Policing Commander, Andr Kotze, on 082 414 2314 or Sector Commander Solly Mahlo on 082 728 9792 in case of assistance required. He concluded saying the area was quiet at the time. Story: YOLANDE NEL &gt;&gt;observer.yolande@gmail.com