Stanford Lake College (SLC) held its inter-house swimming gala at the college s High Performance Centre recently. A number of house records were broken during the event with exciting finishes to some of the races. The event was well supported by the entire SLC community including parents. The Patrick Wilken Trophy went to Loomis for winning the event with 270 points after some good individual as well as relay performances. Orvis was second on 225 points followed by Fenwick on 169. Chay Pott, u.14, from Fenwick was named Junior Victrix Ludorum and received the Reed Trophy while Luca Wasley, u.14, from Orvis received the Zamparini Trophy for Junior Victor Ludorum. The Burelli Trophy for Senior Victrix Ludorum went to Loomis Anke Vaughan. The Schofield Trophy was presented to Senior Victor Ludorum Ryan Schultz, also from Orvis. The Glenys Tweedy Trophy for the house with the most spirit went to Orvis. Guest of honour Sue Reed presented the prizes. Ryan Shultz from Orvis is the Senior Victor Ludorum, winner of the Wilson Trophy for Boys Individual Medley and the Van Niewenhuizen Trophy for the Stanford Lake Challenge Boys. He is congratulated by guest of honour, Sue Reed. Anke Vaughan, winner of the Burelli Trophy for Senior Victrix Ludorum and the Scott Trophy for the Stanford Lake Challenge Girls. Anika Schmidt, winner of the De Vos Trophy for Girls Individual Medley and Estie Fenske Trophy for u.16 age group winner Girls, is a member of team Loomis. Heads of Sport: Orvis Marc Stirling and Shakira Janke with the Glenys Tweedy Trophy won for the house with the most spirit. Shay Pot, u.14, from Fenwick with the Reed Trophy for the Junior Victrix Ludorum. Luca Wasley, u.14, Junior Victor Ludorum and recipient of the Zamparini Trophy. Ethan Chidavaenzi, Loomis, with the Le Roux Trophy for u.16 age group winner &#8211; Boys. Heads of Sport: Loomis, Themba Kubayi and Anke Vaughan with the Baragwanath Relay Trophy for the house that won the most relays. They also accepted the Patrick Wilken Trophy for the winning house.