The warning that Polokwane is positioned on a crime time-bomb waiting to explode is accompanied by the assertion that the Limpopo Police s management structure requires urgent refurbishing to rid it of alleged tribalism, the notion of cadre deployment and distrust in law enforcers whose perceived tendency of reactive policing is seen to be jeopardising the safety of citizens. While the Police in the province claim to be retaining top spot nationally with regards to dealing with crime, criticism lodged from various angles points at lacking levels of confidence in the men and women in blue after heightened levels of violence were recently witnessed within city perimeters. With claims of vigilantes still attempting to take law into their own hands as they daily scout for so-called drug dealers in parts of downtown Polokwane until early evening after an estimated 30 xenophobic attacks within six weeks commencing in mid-March and no arrests having been effected in this regard, residents of Polokwane cannot be blamed for fearing a repeat of the unrivalled violence that played out of late or for being anxious about safeguarding their own. Some two weeks since the last incident a trusted source indicated on Tuesday that petty cases like shoplifting and theft from vehicles currently pose to be the biggest headache in the city centre, a situation that has been attested to by law enforcers and businesspeople for many months. The observation that crime in Limpopo s capital is spiralling out of proportion was affirmed by sources in the Police, who reckoned the strategy of the top structure in the province was too weak to deal with the challenges, that Police management was seen to be inefficient in combating crime and had to be replaced. A high-ranking officer blamed a dire situation on an overall lack of qualifications, skills, knowledge and experience across ranks. They are placing lives of people and their property in danger by appointing the wrong people to positions. He conceded that the situation has evolved into a scenario where the policing of petty crimes demanded as much attention as serious cases like that of murder. Also as trust in the Police waned and the community was continuously seen to be taking law into their own hands as opposed to looking to the Police for protection, they had to revisit their tactics, he suggested. The source likened the situation arising from the community having to police themselves to sitting on a time-bomb. The prominence of the worrisome trend of mob justice leading to incited violence is attributed to the fact that the community doesn t trust the Police to maintain law and order and would rather resort to forms of self-imposed justice, summarised the same source. He simultaneously contradicted claims that the provincial Police structure could impossibly have claimed top position countrywide after coming in at last place a year and a half ago, a situation that apparently resulted in high-level intervention from Police s national headquarters. Lim Police opinion Limpopo Police spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe alluded to the fact that the Police in Limpopo had retained its first place nationally in dealing with crime since last year, attributed to a partnership with the community. At the same time he maintained that measures were being taken to sufficiently address any crime situation, including the conducting of imbizos taking on the form of crime awareness campaigns across the province. The latest was scheduled to be held in the Mankweng cluster yesterday (Wednesday) to address sporadic incidents of rape, armed robbery, house robbery, burglaries and theft in the area, Ngoepe said. According to him imbizos had been hosted in other clusters since last year upon identification of challenges in those areas. The imbizos, he pointed out were part of the ongoing intervention strategy introduced by Provincial Police Commissioner Nneke Ledwaba. Turning to the issue of the recent spate of xenophobic attacks, he said no arrests had been made as yet and repeated last week s response of an update being awaited on progress made in a high level investigation by multiple detective units. He was not willing to elaborate on the number of cases registered following the incidents in the city. Official opposition concerned about situation In her capacity as representative of the official opposition in the province, Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) acting Provincial Chairperson Rendani Munyai projected a firm stance on the issue when asked for comment. Expressing concern about an overall high crime rate, she said she had raised the issue in a meeting of the Legislature transport and community safety portfolio committee last week. She stressed that Limpopo was not improving on eliminating crime or reducing the high rate of crime, more especially on farms and in residential areas. Munyai said safety and security were matters that affected the lives of everyone &#8211; no matter their political affiliation &#8211; and should be dealt with first and foremost. The EFF in Limpopo was concerned about the manner in which the African National Congress (ANC)-led government was handling the matter and the efforts of Transport and Community Safety MEC Nandi Ndalane were being regarded insufficient. With the picture in Limpopo not looking at all positive, she recommended that the MEC and her department head went back to the drawing board. Munayi blamed cadre deployment for the top management of the Police in the province not being fit for the job and raised the question why experienced officers could not be considered for positions. She suggested the replacement of the current management structure of the Police in Limpopo with crime fighting experience. She was adamant that the low morale of Police officials and their involvement in crime were reflective of inadequate salaries. The problem of crime would never be solved if the issues persisted, she stressed. Munyai further addressed the recent incidence of xenophobia in Polokwane by saying the EFF condemned it and that it couldn t be proper for fellow-brothers being attacked on the basis that they were foreigners. She emphasised that judging from the present path the country was on, South Africans might just as well end up going to other African countries seeking refugee status in future. She concluded with the statement that she herself didn t feel safe in the city. Story: YOLANDE NEL &gt;&gt;observer.yolande@gmail.com