Polokwane Executive Mayor Thembi Nkadimeng is confident that the city s fourth Annual Mayoral Cycle Race (PAMCR) will be bigger and better and attract more participants than the previous years. Addressing a media briefing at the new Peter Mokaba Stadium on Monday, Nkadimeng said that the event that is scheduled for 28 May is expected to draw more than 10 000 cyclists. This year has seen more positive responses from sponsors as the event has over the years grown in stature and footprint, indicating that at present there is a mouth-watering R300 000 in prize money, Nkadimeng said. Nkadimeng said that the PAMCR is the biggest and most inclusive sporting event in Limpopo and aims to encourage members of the community to embrace an active, healthy lifestyle and general wellness and for the younger generation to turn professional, Nkadimeng explained and added that the journey is still continuing to date with complimentary Non-Motorised Transport (NMT) infrastructure being constructed alongside the Public Transport System. We have pulled out all the stops to ensure that we deliver the most memorable event in the history of the PAMCR. We are grateful for the support and enthusiasm that has been shown by members of the public towards the event. The PAMCR continues to live up to its strong reputation of being all inclusive by enabling participants to choose from various categories based on their strengths and preferences, Nkadimeng said. PAMCR 2017 will continue with the legacy of creating a family friendly, exciting and fun filled atmosphere that includes an array of entertainment, children s activities, wellness, outdoor aerobics, music and dance, DJs, food stalls and so much more. A pump track will also be installed at the venue for young and old non-riders to play around and hone their cycling skills, Nkadimeng promised. The municipality s Marketing, Communications and Stakeholder Engagement Manager in the Transportation Directorate, Mantlako Sebaka, informed that a number of pre-race events have been organised around the city as a build-up to the event. They include promotions at Mall of the North scheduled for this Saturday, as well as at the Seshego Circle Mall on 29 April, Paledi Mall on 1 May and the Traffic Light Blitz across the city on 5 May, Sebaka said. Story and photos: BARRY VILJOEN &gt;&gt;barryv.observer@gmail.com Acting Municipal Manager of Polokwa ne Municipality, Ndavhe Ramakuela welcomes the media to the briefing. Polokwane Municipality s Marketing, Communications and Stakeholder Engagement Manager in the Transportation Directorate, Mantlako Sebaka,talks on the events during the build-up to the PAMCR at the media briefing.