Local educator Linda Khoza, was awarded for excellence in teaching Physical Science at the 17th Annual National Teaching Awards held in Midrand recently. Khoza, attached to Capricorn High School, was awarded the Gold Achievement Award on national level after taking first place on both regional and provincial level. She was first appointed at Capricorn High School in 2010. In 2011 her Grade 12 learners attained 14 distinctions and in 2012 17. According to Khoza she knew that she wanted to make a difference in Limpopo the moment she arrived at Capricorn. I have a dream to see Limpopo, as rural as we are, changing and improving the economy. I want to produce scientists who can come up with ways to save water and eradicate poverty, scientists who can invent a cure for cancer, Khoza explained when asked about her motivation for teaching. Khoza renders invaluable community service by offering science lessons on local and national radio stations. She also offers private extra lessons for selected learners in collaboration with the University of Stellenbosch. Since winning the award, Khoza has become an inspiration for many. She inspires her learners by teaching them they can achieve whatever they want in life. The person who is most inspired by her, is her son who chose her as the subject of an essay he had to write for his school on people who inspire him the most. She acknowledged above all God for his grace and the talent she had received. She further said she had received support from the management and school governing body as well as her parents. She grew up in Sasekani village near Tzaneen, attended Mohlaba Primary School in Letaba where she proceeded to matriculate at Hudson Ntsan wisi Secondary School in 1996. She completed her teaching diploma at Mastec College in Seshego in 2000 and went on to acquire a BSc honours degree in 2007 at the University of Witwatersrand (Wits). Khoza s first teaching post was at Equinisweni Secondary School in Gauteng. Story and photo: THINUS DU TOIT &gt;&gt;thinus@observer.co.za &nbsp;