In an effort to engage sponsors for Polokwane Municipality s fourth annual Mayoral Cycle Race, officials of the municipality met with government departments and the business community at a venue in the city on Monday. The race is scheduled to start at the old Peter Mokaba Stadium at 07:00 on 28 May and on-line registrations will be accepted on www.polo kwanecyclerace.co.za from 18 April. Distances covered will be 15 km, 45 km and 96 km. Registration fees were not yet available at the time of going to print. Acting Municipal Manager Ndavhe Ramakuela is quoted to have said that the municipality aims to grow the race as it will also give impetus to the city s tourism and business industry if people visit Polokwane for the week end while taking part in the race. The race is already a category A event that places it in the same class as the Cape Argus. We want to put Polokwane on the map and market it as a cycling city, Ramakuela said. Rebotile Malakalaka, Marketing, Communications and Stakeholder Relations Assistant Manager in the Transportation Directorate of the municipality, says that the proceeds of the event will go towards the Executive Mayor s bursary fund and donations to NGOs. We have raised R200 000 last year from registration fees of 2 000 entrants and aim to push it up to 2 500 this year, Malakalaka informed. According to Malakalaka, the municipality aims to promote cycling as a profession as well as a mode of transport that will form part of the Integrated Rapid Public Transport System (IRPTS) that is scheduled to go live during October next year. Too many people still walk to work while they will soon be able to cycle to the bus stops, leave their bicycles there in safety and proceed to work using the bus service, Malakalaka explains. We want people to change their mindset about the use of private vehicles, she said. According to Malakalaka, the Mayoral Cycle Race will be a family event with jumping castles, bicycle tracks and a selection of interesting stalls to keep spectators and children occupied while the race takes place. In conclusion, Malakalaka said that the initial responses from prospective donors were very positive but are subject to confirmation. Story and photos: BARRY VILJOEN &gt;&gt;barryv.observer@gmail.com Rebotile Malakalaka, Marketing, Communications and Stakeholder Relations Assistant Manager in the Transportation Directorate of Polo kwane Municipality.