There has never been a better time to join the Volkswagen family than now as you will not only be driving one of the world s most loved cars, you will also score big on special offers available on a variety of models. Volkswagen now offers an upgrade on the Polo Vivo, low instalment on the nifty up! and as well as guaranteed value on the Polo and Golf. Polo Vivo upgrade When you buy a basic Polo Vivo hatch Conceptline you qualify for an upgrade to the Trendline model which includes more engine power, colour coded mirrors and door handles, front electric windows, height adjustable driver seat and stylish chrome inserts on the front grille. The Polo Vivo is packed with South African spirit and crafted with love from its modern front grille to its beautiful eye catching curves. Every curve is shaped and refined, offering a more streamlined design which means less resistance when you need to hit the road. The Polo Vivo is finished off with top quality fabrics, materials and soft touch plastic. up! now only R1 999 per month The Volkswagen Take up! is available from R166 300 with an interest rate of only 6,83% and a deposit of 12,35% over a period of 72 months which calculates at R1 999 per month and a balloon payment of R49 890. The up! sets a new precedent in car design, with exceptional interior space. With its eye-catching standard steel wheels or optional alloys, enhanced by horizontal running lines to the front and smooth finishes to the side, the up! is an ultra-modern interpretation of the classic Volkswagen design. Its reliability and low fuel consumption make it the perfect vehicle for students. Guaranteed Future Value The Guaranteed Future Value (GFV) on the Polo TSi and Golf GTi DSG offers clients a safe way to keep their options open. When you drive away in a new Polo or Golf you can be assured of the minimum value the car will retain at the end of your term. Plus you don t have to lock yourself into anything that will restrict your options down the track &#8211; what you do at the end of the term is up to you which means that Volkswagen carry the risk. GFV works as follows: First you pay a flexible deposit or your trade-in may cover this. First it is decided how many kilometres you will do every year, 20 000 km, 25 000 km or 30 000 km and the total months of fixed payments over 24, 36 or 48 months. Based on these numbers Volkswagen will come up with a guaranteed future value for your vehicle and then structure a finance deal with monthly repayments. At the end of your contract you have three options: Trade in &#8211; You can upgrade your vehicle at the end of your term by simply trading in your old vehicle for a brand new one under the GFV programme. Retain If you don t want to return your vehicle, you can purchase the vehicle outright for the GFV price you locked in at the start of the contract. Or Volkswagen can help you refinance the amount if you have the intention of keeping your vehicle at the end of that period. Return As long as you ve kept to your agreed kilometres and taken good care of your vehicle, you can just return your vehicle to your Volkswagen dealership. Visit Volkswagen Polokwane at the corner of Nelson Mandela Drive and Grobler Street or contact them on 015 299 8800. Terms and conditions apply. Subject to finance through VW Financial Services. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com