Transport Deputy Minister Sindisiwe Chikunga and Transport and Community Safety MEC Nandi Ndalane are expected to attend the official launch of the Provincial Easter Road Safety Campaign at Mookgophong Community Stadium today (Thursday). Officials are geared to monitor and assist on the roads and will again have zero tolerance towards traffic offenders as continuous roadblocks and operations will be conducted throughout the province. South African National Road Agency Limited (Sanral) Communications Manager, Vusi Mona was quoted by a press release to have said that all national routes are in good condition and it is likely that motorists will not experience major delays caused by roadworks. The N1 between Pretoria and the Limpopo border is expected to be in good condition yet there will be heavy traffic volumes on the R101. Traditionally the period of 14 to 17 April is when there is a rapid spike in traffic on most major national and provincial highways. It is expected that there will be heavy traffic on the R101 heading toward Bela-Bela on the day before Good Friday and coming back to Pretoria on Easter Monday. Also along the R101, at Moorddrift towards Mokopane, heavy traffic flows are expected early on Good Friday while going toward Mookgophong, there will be heavy traffic and congestion on Easter Monday, he said. Mona added that the road to and from Moria will be very busy as always with thousands of Zion Christian Church (ZCC) pilgrims expected during the Easter weekend. They will enjoy the benefit of the improved R71 interchange just south of Polokwane. This is one of the busiest roads in Africa during Easter and the new road section and improved access for pilgrims to Zion City will contribute to the safety of the journey. Sanral is undertaking routine upgrades at the Capricorn and Baobab plazas and there might be additional vehicles due to routine road maintenance along almost the entire N1 from Pretoria to Beit Bridge. However, no major delays are expected, according to Mona. If drivers stick to the rules of the road and display tolerance and courtesy towards fellow road users, we should be able to cut down on the unacceptably high rate of fatal crashes. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com