The brutal killing of people by communities during mob justice continues, despite regular pleas by the Police to refrain from taking the law into their own hands as well as the recent hefty sentencing of 16 mob killers which Police hope will serve as warning. Two people were allegedly killed by a mob in Mecklenburg on Tuesday. Provincial Police Spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe said the incident occurred after an alleged business robbery at Ga-Kgwete Village. The business owner was reportedly attacked and robbed of cash, cigarettes and airtime vouchers by four unknown armed suspects. The suspects fled the scene in two cars but community members mobilised and followed them. During the process two community members were shot at by the suspects and seriously wounded. The suspects were chased and cornered on a small mountain in the area where they were allegedly assaulted and two of them set alight and burnt to death. The other two were seriously injured during the assault and are still recuperating in hospital, Ngoepe said. We are calling on all community members to desist from acts of vigilantism and the so-called mob justice. The Police will act mercilessly against anyone who participates in these violent activities, Provincial Police Commissioner Nneke Ledwaba was quoted to have said. Meanwhile, 16 accused were sentenced on charges of murder, public violence and arson following an incident in Burgersfort when a local induna Daniel Kabishi Mojela (62) was forced to drink petrol before his body was soaked in fuel and set alight in 2014. The accused were sentenced as follows: Solomon Chiloane, Thabo Mohlala and Mighty Madutlela sentenced to life imprisonment for murder; Johannes Ramapulane, Nico Mammaru, Tshepho Madutlela, Disegoana Mosekeng and Hendrick Mogane sentenced to six years imprisonment for public violence and Maite Makofane, Monica Matsie, Ndodo Mozau, Emmanuel Madutlela, Gladys Mathe, Kerry Mmamaile, Timothy Ribs and Okny Mashaba were sentenced to two years imprisonment each for arson. Nneke Ledwaba welcomed the great achievements by the Burgersfort detectives, especially in view of the escalation of the incidents of mob killings. This will send a strong message to all members of the community who are still intending to take the law into their hands by participating in acts of vigilantism and mob attacks, that the Police will be merciless when dealing with them, Ledwaba is quoted to have said. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com