Winter is around the corner and time is running out to enjoy the beauty of the bushveld. The good news is that at MGM Mahindra Polokwane a complimentary camping set worth R5 000 when purchasing a Mahindra Scorpio Pik-Up single or double cab will easily and comfortably extend a camping experience deep into the cold months ahead. Mahindra Polokwane gives away a camping set containing a four-man tent, gas-top kettle, cooler box, folding table, two camping chairs, solar shower and single gas stove to every buyer of the Mahindra Scorpio Pik-Up 2,2 CRDe single or double cab. Offer is available for the month of April only. The Scorpio Pik-Up s imposing styling, the signature front grille and integrated bonnet scoop makes this bakkie look positively indestructible. The Scorpio Pik-Up is designed to be practical and sturdy with great ground clearance, a dependable engine and transmission and large load box. The Pik-Up is decked out with all the modern-day luxuries for your comfort and convenience. Attention to detail can be found on every dial, button and knob, each finished to perfection and tested for durability. One can power up, settle-in and select your comfortable cruise speed through the steering-mounted cruise control function. The driver can also select his favourite radio station, adjust the volume or change audio modes with the controls on the steering wheel while keeping his eyes on the road. The magic of common rail diesel engine technology is implemented in the Scorpio Pik-Up s new high-power mHawk engine. Its raw power and smooth acceleration make every drive a thrill to remember. The 2,2 litre four-cylinder mHawk diesel engine is what makes the Scorpio Pik-Up. The innovative two chain drive system and hydraulic lash adjuster cuts down the noise drastically too. It s more fuel efficient, environment friendly and a hallmark of Mahindra s cutting-edge technology. On the 4&#215;4 variants, the Pik-Up s Mechanical Locking Differential (MLD) is manufactured by the world renowned Eaton Corporation and further enhances its on-road and off-road capabilities. It provides full axle lock automatically when needed without any manual intervention, thus providing optimum traction. The engine delivers 89 kW of torque at 4 000 rpm and 270 Nm of power at 1 600 rpm. In terms of driving safety the Scorpio Pik-Up is well equipped to handle any peril you may come across. When hard braking is required the Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) will ensure the vehicle is brought to a halt safely and in the shortest distance without compromising control. And in the event of collision crumple zones at key points absorb most of the impact, whilst unyielding steel bars in the doors minimise impact from the sides. The occupants safety is also assured during impact with the dual airbags and the steering column is designed to collapse to avoid causing injury. For more information contact MGM Mahindra Polokwane. Visit them at 105 Landdros Mar Street or contact the sales team on 015 287 9660. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com