Polokwane Pedallers Cycling Club elected its office bearers for 2017 during the club s annual general meeting at the lapa of General Piet Joubert School on Friday evening. Trophies were also awarded to Pedaller of the Year Graham Chrystal, Most Improved Cyclist Yolandi Bell and Queen of Pain Hiadee von Well. Chareen Thomas and Roy and John Kirkpatrick were elected as Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer respectively. Yolandi Bell is the Assistant Secretary and Graham Crystal will be responsible for events planning. Other committee members are Hiadee and Anton von Well, Onno Neeleman, Aubrey Thomas, Johan and Vanessa Kruger, Andre Pienaar, Andre Ehlers and Tinus Erasmus. According to Chareen Thomas, the club was involved in a number of events during 2016 that included the Makhulu 5 Mountainbike Race, the Tour de Plaas and the May 2016 School s XCO that took place in the Polokwane Game Reserve. The Lentetrap was also hosted in the Polokwane Game Reserve and an amount of R25 000 was raised and donated to the Run for Alex initiative. The club will be involved in the Mall of the North/Cycle Concept Makhulu 5 MTB at Mall of the North that is scheduled for 18 February as well as the Lentetrap on 26 August. Club rides will take place on Saturday mornings throughout the year. Inquiries regarding club activities may be directed to polokwane.pedallers@mweb.co.za. Story and photos: BARRY VILJOEN &gt;&gt;barryv.observer@gmail.com Featured photo: Office bearers of Polokwane Pedallers Cycling Club for 2017 are Secretary Roy Kirkpatrick, Assistant Secretary Yolandi Bell, Chairperson Chareen Thomas and additional members Vanessa Kruger and Onno Neeleman, front. At the back are additional members Aubrey Thomas, Anton von Well, Graham Crystal, Tinus Erasmus, Andr Pienaar, Johan Kruger and Treasurer John Kirkpatrick. Polokwane Pedallers Cycling Club Chairperson Chareen Thomas with Most Improved Cyclist Yolandi Bell, Pedaller of the Year Graham Chrystal, Queen of Pain Hiadee von Well and Club secretary Roy Kirkpatrick.