Mzansi Athletics Club kicks off with fun run. Polokwane s youngest athletics club, Mzansi Athletics Club was launched in the city on Saturday with an estimated 60 athletes, including runners from other clubs, participating in a 5 km fun run. 2012 Comrades Marathon gold medallist Ludwick Mamabolo was among the runners who lent support to the initiative. A total of 25 members have already paid their membership fees and many others have already committed themselves to become members. With the exception of the club committee, most members are beginners and new to running. Through our training programme we aim to take them from coach to Comrades, Chairperson Richard Rambiyana said. The other committee members are Deputy Chairperson Tovhowani Maswime, Secretary Zwoda Maligana, Deputy Secretary Prudence Ndou, Treasurer Matodzi Makwarela, Coach Lufuno Mudau and Projects Coordinator Dimakatso Mafona. The committee consists of persons with proven experience in running ultra-marathons such as the Comrades and Two Oceans, Rambiyana said. Rambiyana started running in 2012 with the motivation of attaining a healthy lifestyle and staying fit. After completing the Kaapsehoop 3-in 1 race in 04:44.00 he qualified to run his first Comrades Marathon in 2014. With Mzansi Athletics Club I wish to encourage every South African to run the Comrades at least once in their lifetime. We will partner with businesspersons to fund young athletes who have the potential but lack resources and motivation to run races outside their locality, Rambiyana said. He has been running in the colours of Polokwane Run/Walk for Life for the past four years and thanked its Chairperson, Kobie Marais for his guidance and mentorship towards becoming a top athlete. Regarding the name of the club Rambiyana said Mzansi means south in most Nguni or African languages and is in line with the aim of the club to encourage people of the south to participate in sport related activities, especially road running. Mzansi Athletics Club is registered with Limpopo Athletics (Lima) and the Comrades Marathon Association. Rambiyana said everyone regardless of race, age, location or weight is welcome to join the club. Call Rambiyana on 082 421 8588 or Maligana on 082 809 0718. Story and photos: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com Featured photo: Close to 60 athletes participate in the 5 km fun run as part of the launch of Mzansi Athletics Club. Mzansi Athletics Club Chairperson Richard Rambiyana. Mzansi Athletics Club member Victor Dangale with 2012 Comrades Marathon winner Ludwick Mamabolo.