What started out as a bird breeding programme turned into a haven for city dwellers when the team of The Macaw Nest Family Restaurant developed the property into a venue where children could have safe adventures while adults soak up the relaxing atmosphere. Situated at plot 9 in Dalmada, the venue has a lot to offer with a three roomed guesthouse, five-sleeper self catering family unit, two deluxe en-suite rooms, a family styled pub and many activities to enjoy. There are also two board rooms available for meetings and training sessions. Children are very welcome at The Macaw Nest Family Restaurant where they can enjoy the swimming pool and visit the koi fish ponds while their parents take a breather in the comfortable and rustic outdoor pub seating areas. A chalkboard walled tree house, sandpit and colouring pictures add to the fun. Kids can also go on bicycle rides to explore the grounds, renting bikes at R10 for 30 minutes, and bird tours during the colder months when the magnificent collection of beautiful macaws are not breeding. General Manager Marlie Human says the tours will open in April. A bass fly fishing dam is being built to accommodate anglers in the near future. There will also be fly fishing classes for children presented by South African Commonwealth candidate angler Jason Bruin. Head Chef Kenneth Mathemabi creates great la carte dishes including The Macaw Nest Family Restaurant specialities like their stuffed burgers and pizza. Platters are also available. There are also healthy options on the menu for those who are watching their waistlines. Tame birds lend a special atmosphere to the restaurant and seating area and the bar offers a wide variety of drinks and mixes. According to Human, the Macaw Nest team caters for special events like kitchen teas, baby showers and parties for groups of up to 100 people when booked in advance. This includes braai and spitbraai facilities. For more information she can be contacted on 084 428 0073. She is also very excited about the restaurant s new menu and thanks Rika Marais at Independent Signs for all her hard work and support in developing this new addition. The Macaw Nest Family Restaurant is open from 09:00 and the gate closes at 20:00 during the week, but tables will still be served until 21:00. On Sundays the doors open at 09:00 and close at 16:00. The Pentecostal Protestant Church New Hope Renewal Centre satellite congregation gathers on the premises on Sundays for an English service at 09:00 and an Afrikaans service at 10:00 in the main board room. The Macaw Nest Family Restaurant can be contacted on 015 065 0464 or by email at themacawnest@gmail.com and info@themacawnest.co.za for more information on the accommodation on offer and other enquiries. Story and photos: MARKI FRANKEN &gt;&gt;marki.observer@gmail.com Featured photo: The tight knit team at The Macaw Nest Family Restaurant is Rose Mokonyane, Assistant Chef, Rebecca Mailula, Assistant Chef, Beauty Mafuladze, Housekeeper, Max Mharamasaka, Waiter, Evelyn Mogashwa, Housekeeper, Joyce Leokwe, Housekeeper, Kenneth Mathemabi, Head Chef, and Francina Modiba, Waiter. Head Chef Kenneth Ma themabi shows off his skills behind the grill. Barman Ulrich Vla ming shows off some of his interesting creations. Macaw Nest offers luxury accommodation at affordable prices. Guests are welcome to enjoy the swimming pool with kiddies pool while relaxing at The Macaw Nest Family Restaurant. Assistant Manager Bianca du Plessis with her pet macaw, Blue. The Macaw Nest Family Restaurant General Manager Marlie Human with her pet cockatoo, Sannie.