If you still haven t found something to spend your 13th cheque on, Lexus Polo kwane offers the new generation Lexus RX the perfect late Christmas present to spoil yourself with. Luxury has a new edge in the RX. From the chiselled exterior to elegant interior, the new generation RX enhances the premium values pioneered by the model s predecessor and offers all the bells and whistles to ensure the most comfortable drive on any road taken in the New Year. From top to bottom the RX lures drivers and passengers alike. Teasing at the performance beneath the hood is a bold exterior of dynamic lines that frame the assertive spindle grille before building into strongly flared fenders. The seductive strength brought out by the curves make one want to discover what it feels like in action. The RX features a gleaming athletic appearance with stylish L-shaped premium LED headlights. The rear is as exciting as the front with standard power rear door featuring new spindle electric motors and memory function. Every element on the interior of the RX has been refined. The cockpit design reveals a meticulous hand-stitched dash and finishes that accent each finely-appointed corner. The seductive innovation in the details presents an exquisite experience as a whole and the discerning eye. To ensure more comfort to the driver and front passenger the RX offers four-way power adjustable seats in the front for which provides lumber support and are dressed in perforated leather that is both heated and ventilated. A memory system also remembers driver preferences and the push of a button. The interior further features reverse camera monitor audio visual with Bluetooth and USB capability, 12 speakers and 8 inch display which also incorporates voice-activated navigation system. When it comes to safety Lexus did not compromise on any level of sophistication. For heightened attention when your eyes are on the road ahead, rear-mounted radar detects vehicles approaching from behind and alerts the driver by the appearance of an icon in the side mirror. When backing up the Rear Cross-Traffic Alert detects and notifies if a vehicle is approaching. The RX hosts 10 standard airbags for the driver, front and rear passengers which include curtain, side and knee airbags. The RX boasts a powerful 3,5 litre V6 engine with 221 kW of power at 6 300 rpm and 370 Nm of torque at 4 700 rpm. The new RX is also a big improvement concerning enhancement in noise reduction, road noise, vibration and bump suppression ensuring top class comfort while driving. A RX450 hybrid is also available with Atkinson-cycle V6 engine and an eight-speed automatic transmission. The RX450 balances innovation, design and conservation and exceeds expectations on class-leading fuel economy, environmental performance and driving performance. For more information contact Lexus Polokwane on 015 292 9500 or visit them at 205 Tagore Street. Story and photos: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com Featured photo: The new Lexus RX offers top class luxury and comfort. 