Ho rskool Noorderland s athletes are off to a good start this season judging by the school s inter-house meeting held on Friday. Thabang Makeketlana was named Senior Victor Ludorum and Best Athlete of the meeting while Fanisa Baloyi and Tshegofatso Moseri shared the Senior Victrix Ludorum title and trophy. Junior athletes Kgalushi Ramonyai, Victrix Ludorum and Thabang Nwamafela, Victor Ludorum, gave good account of themselves and contributed to the success of their teams. The school s athletics organiser Maropeng Monareng said the event went smoothly and they were looking forward to the rest of the season. Three teams, Red, Yellow and the winning Blue team participated. Monareng and his team of co-workers, sports organiser Deon Kruger and assistant athletics organiser Karin Mills, with this meeting introduced a process of collaboration between educators and parents that is aimed at getting the parents more involved in their children s extramural activities. Parents with experience of and interest in athletics were invited to participate and share their basic knowledge by acting as place judges during the meet. Monareng said he was satisfied with the positive response and believes this will encourage parents to be more supportive of their children on more than just an academic level. The spirit of collaboration exposed the parents to what an inter-house meeting is all about, he said. He also commended their sponsors, Coca-Cola Fortune for the supply of soft drinks, bottled water and gazebos as well as a local restaurant that supplied lunch for the officials. Featured photo: Top achievers at the inter-house meeting Kgalushi Ramonyai, Junior Victrix Ludorum, Thabang Nwamafela, Junior Victor Ludorum, Fanisa Baloyi and Tshegofatso Moseri, Senior Victrices Ludorum, Thabang Makeketlana, Senior Victor Ludorum and also Best Athlete of the day. (photos: Alet-Elize van Jaarsveld) Ziyabonga Zulu clears the bar at 1,63 m to improve the previous high jump record for boys u.14 by ,05 m.