Myriads of students flocked to various institutions of higher learning in the city and surrounds on Monday in an attempt to secure classroom space for the upcoming academic year. Many local institutions are apparently unable to accommodate all the applicants due to limited space. Walter Tshamano, Tshwane University of Technology (TUT), Polokwane Campus Director said they were overwhelmed by the turnout at the campus but they can only take a limited number. We have had lots of applications but the available new student intake is 1 012. Thus far 661 applications have been processed. All programmes are full except for Economics and Finance, Information Communication Technology and Management Sciences. On average, those programmes require a total score of 24 and Mathematics and English scores of at least 3 and 4 for Mathematics Literacy. Potential students are advised to apply online at www.tut.ac.za. Those with no computer skills are encouraged to visit the campus before Friday, 13 January so that they can be assisted to apply online too. The assistance is available on a fist come first serve basis, Tshamano said. At Capricorn TVET College s Polokwane Campus applicants were allegedly turned away due to the clogged and overloaded application system. First year student Kagiso Mokobane from Moletjie said she arrived at the campus at 05:00 on Monday and found long queues which she joined to be told at around 9:00 that the system was clogged. I got up very early hoping to be the first and finish with the registration but I was disappointed when the officials told me that they won t be able to help us with applications due to the clogged system, Mokobane said. Capricorn TVET College Public Relations Officer Tumelo Morobe confirmed the large turnout at the campus but denied the allegations of the admissions system being clogged. Lots of students wanted to apply for admission to the Polokwane Campus because everyone want to study in town, Morobe said. At the time of our going to press Morobe could not reveal the number of applications that had been processed. Spokesperson for the University of Limpopo Kgalema Mohuba said they had received over 26 000 applications but would only be accepting 4 917 first-year students. The University of South Africa which caters for full-time and part-time students also enjoyed a huge turnout of applicants on Monday and the institution s Spokesperson George Dire could not confirm the number of applicants due to the overloaded system. We cannot give you the detailed figure because our system is down but once it is back in operation will give it to you, Dire said. Story &amp; photos: Herbert Rachuene &gt;&gt;herbert@mailbox.co.za Featured photo: Persons waiting outside the premises of Capricorn TVET s Polokwane campus to register. Queuing at the University of South Africa s Limpopo headquarters on Monday. Aspirant students queuing outside Tshwane University of Technology s Polokwane Campus.