With many institutions and courses available to students, they are in the fortunate but confusing position of how to choose the path that best aligns with their goals. Greg Fillmore, Managing Director of Rosebank College, an educational brand of The Independent Institute of Education (IIE) offers some tips on where to start. Decide what to study Once that decision is made it is easier to figure out which institution is best suited to achieve that dream. Prospective students are encouraged to do the necessary research in order to pick the best fit for them. Look for quality Make sure to check whether the institution of choice is accredited and what current students have to say about it. Job seekers need authentic qualifications to enter the world of work. Affordability Unfortunately tertiary education is generally costly. Consider financial limitations such as the need for a bursary, student loan or government loan. Plan ahead and apply for financial assistance in time. Future employment Rosebank College assists graduates in finding employment. Through the Graduate Empowerment Programme (GEP), six graduates from Rosebank College are being placed in employment per day. Location According to a survey by Stanley Hutcheson &amp; Associates the primary challenge facing South African students is transport costs. Ask whether the institution is situated on public transport routes and whether there are parking facilities. Facilities Access to a comprehensive library and internet is very important. Free WiFi should be a requisite as it will help with research. Access to a computer lab also makes the student experience a lot more pleasant. Culture fit Spend a day at preferred tertiary institutions to get a feel for the culture of the campus. Students should take into account that they will spend the next three to five years at that campus and must be comfortable with the atmosphere. Story: MARKI FRANKEN &gt;&gt;marki.observer@gmail.com Featured photo: Access to a computer lab makes the student experience a lot more pleasant at Rosebank College Polokwane. (photo: archive) &nbsp;