Nape Nchabeleng is the new Director-General (DG) of the province. The announcement was just made at a press conference this morning following the Provincial Executive Council meeting yesterday. Nchabeleng has been acting as DG since October 2015, when he took over the position from the then acting DG, Phuti Pheme. Prior to that the position was filled by Rachel Molepo-Modipa, who was suspended in October 2013. Her dismissal was later declared unfair by the General Public Sector Service Sectoral Bargaining Council. Nchabeleng, among others, has served as Senior Manager, Strategic Planning in the Office of the Premier, Head of Department of the Department of Cooperative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs and also as Manager Strategic Planning at Polokwane Municipality. Nchabeleng, according to the advertisement of the post in August last year, will earn R1 656 618 per annum and in turn would be expected to display strategic capability and leadership in people management and empowerment, programme and project management, financial management, change management, computer literacy, knowledge management, service delivery innovation, problem solving and analysis, client orientation and customer focus, communication, public service knowledge, negotiation skills, policy formulation, analytic thinking and honesty and integrity. Personal attributes required are assertiveness, being self-driven, a team player and innovativeness. He will be the Accounting Officer responsible for overseeing the administration of provincial and national legislation, coordinate the preparation and initiation of provincial legislation, ensure that the provincial administration has the necessary capacity in terms of governance, policies, business processes and systems, manage performance of the provincial administration, monitor and evaluate service delivery and governance in the province. Nchabeleng will oversee the implementation of policy and planning in the province, strengthen intra- and inter-governmental relations as well as international relations and provide corporate management of the Office of the Premier. It will be expected from the DG to maintain high quality standards in the output and encourage others to meet similar standards and manage allocated resources, both human and capital, effectively, economically and efficiently. Story: Nelie Erasmus nelie.observer@gmail.com Featured photo: Nape Nchabeleng. (photo supplied) &nbsp;