The name Malamba Nemavhadwe is a well-known one in the no-fees school and deep rural area in Vhembe where she hails from. The former learner of the Tshivashe Secondary School, was announced Limpopo s top matric achiever for 2016 during the provincial awards ceremony last week. She obtained a total of 1 740 marks in the final exams and a full house of 300 for Geography. In English First Additional Language she obtained 92%, Tshivenda Home Language 92%, Mathematics 99%, Life Orientation 96%, Life Sciences 99% and Physical Science 98%. Physical Sciences was the subject she enjoyed most of all. She is an ambitious person and has been working towards this outcome since her Grade 8 year, waiting for the moment to be crowned as top scholar after making the decision to work towards that goal. Asked how she would describe herself in a few words she said: Hard-working, goal-orientated, ambitious and outspoken. She had to stand on her own feet and speak for herself, having grown up with three older brothers. Nemavhadze loves reading, especially inspirational and motivational books and her favourite author is Robert Kiyosaki. She relaxes by playing board games such as Monopoly. Both her parents are educators at local primary schools and her father is also a pastor. Tshivashe Secondary School is a quintile 2, no-fee school and one of the top performing schools in the province having obtained position six in the last year and being beaten narrowly by top performers Mbilwi Secondary, Thengwe Secondary, Ho rskool Pietersburg, Thohoyandou Secondary and Dendron Secondary School. School Principal of Tshivashe Secondary School, Shatuwani Maselesele said the school was very proud of Nemavhadze. We are situated in the deep rural areas, Maselesele told Polokwane Observer. He described his top learner as very, very industrious and said she participated in various extra-mural activities throughout her school career. If there was choir practice, she was there, if there was debate she was there, if there was any competition, she participated. She also participated in a competition arranged by the Department of Energy in 2016. Nemavhadze said she enjoyed public speaking a lot. Nemavhadwe plans to study Actuarial Science at the University of the Witwatersrand, where she was accepted and which she visited earlier this week to be introduced to the course content she has chosen after the university called her during the weekend and invited her. She was to return to Vhembe yesterday (Wednesday) for a last few days before she takes on the future. I will start with my studies on 6 February, she said, and added that she will miss her mother s cooking most especially porridge with meat, her favourite dish. Story and photo: NELIE ERASMUS &gt;&gt;nelie.observer@gmail.com Featured photo: Malamba Nemavhadwe, top achiever among the province s 2016 matriculants. 