Annabel Roberts, PEPPS Polokwane College s new principal said she hadn t expected to become a principal yet and was very happy when the headship of PEPPS Polokwane was bestowed on her. It is an excellent, steady and stable school and I haven t come to change a thing but to build on the good traditions already in place at the college, she said She is happy to be in Polokwane again after a previous stint at Mitchell House where she was head of the Physical Science Department and taught Physical Science, Mathematics and Mathematical Literacy in 2011 and 2012 before family responsibilities had the family returning to Gauteng. She loves nature and the bush and is happy to have left the big city. Prior to taking up the position at PEPPS she headed the Physical Science department at Reddam House Waterfall and also taught Physical Science. She previously also headed the Science departments at St Stithians Girls College and St David s Marist in Inanda, among other positions held. He husband, Mark, has taken up a position as Sport Developer at the PEPPS Trust and will be developing sport at the PEPPS schools in the province. The couple has twins who now attend PEPPS. She also has a stepson in Grade 12 attending a boarding school in Gauteng as well as two grown-up stepsons. I am very family-orientated, love relaxing in nature and with friends and family, and I love hiking and off-road cycling, she said. She loves travelling and experiencing different cultures, visiting game farms and nature reserves, contemporary music and loves read fiction, non-fiction and spiritual development books. Roberts holds a Higher Diploma in Education (Post-graduate), with teaching subjects, Physical Science and Mathematics for Secondary Education obtained at the University of Cape Town, a Bachelor of Science, BSc (Chemistry) at the University of the Witwatersrand, and did various courses ranging from St. John s Ambulance First Aid, various computer literacy courses, a course in Zulu at the World of Language College, Basic and Intermediate Counselling courses, IEB assessors course, marriage counselling skills, anger management counselling and bereavement counselling skills courses, Intel Teach Programme, Investment in excellence, Unisa mentorship programme, emotional intelligent leadership, conflict resolution in the workplace and various Ipad training courses. She also assisted organising Cansa Shavaton and blood drives previously and was involved in community work She achieved third place in the Apple Innovative Teacher s Award in South Africa in 2015, The Wessa Eco School Teacher Environment Award in 2012, was nominated as Teacher of the Year at a former school she taught at in 2000 and was in the top five Chemistry students at Wits in 1989, where she received a Mintek Bursary from 1989 to 1991. Story and photo: NELIE ERASMUS &gt;&gt;nelie.observer@gmail.com Featured photo: Annabel Roberts, newly appointed Principal of PEPPS Polokwane College.