GWM s M4 compact crossover is a smash-hit when it comes to searching for the perfect vehicle for everyday cruising or regular longer journeys. The M4 features sporting fresh looks and lots of features as standard and represents very affordable crossover attitude. Its raised ground clearance makes it a confident runner in the urban jungle or on gravel roads and the interior s host of entertainment features makes sure that the road trip never gets boring. One of the M4 s main attractions is the crossover s cheeky looks which are certain to generate lots of talk and turn many heads. It is a very compact vehicle with an overall length of less than four metres, but with an SUV-rivalling ground clearance of more than 180 mm and stylish 16-inch alloy wheels, it certainly packs lots of attitude into those compact dimensions. The squared-off front-end features a gaping lower air dam flanked by fog lamps and daytime running lamps. Skid-plates in a contrasting silver hue are fitted front and rear and black cladding around the sills and wheel arches round off the SUV look. Due to the C-pillar being blacked-out the M4 gains a trendy floating-roof appearance that is further enhanced by the standard fitment of practical roof rails. The interior hosts various funky features with a sporty instrument cluster and overlapping dials and an integrated digital speedometer display. The facia design features a V-shaped centre section with neatly separated control interfaces for the audio (including a large digital screen) and ventilation systems. Vertically slanted ventilation outlets are located either side of the centre hangdown section. Neat black cloth upholstery and the use of silver trim accents on the facia and doors create an upmarket ambience. The M4 is more compact than other small crossovers, yet it remains a practical daily driver, with good levels of head-, shoulder- and legroom all-round. The boot measures a claimed 310 litres and a spare wheel is located under its floor. The rear seat is split 60:40 and can fold down to increase cargo space. As a direct consequence of the compact exterior dimensions and elevated ride height, visibility out of the M4 is excellent. Further boosting inner-city manoeuvrability is hydraulically assisted power steering. As customers have come to expect from GWM, the M4 boasts a comprehensive standard features count, including air-conditioning, electric windows/mirrors and an audio system with USB and auxiliary plug-in support as well as Bluetooth capability. Driver comfort is further boosted by the fitment of a rake-adjustable steering wheel while rear park assist helps drivers avoid those expensive parking scrapes. The M4 is powered by GWM s trusty 1,5-litre VVT-i engine that delivers 71,3 kW at 6 000 rpm and 138 Nm of torque to the front wheels via a slick five-speed manual transmission. The engine features variable valve timing, benefitting not only performance but also fuel economy. The M4 sips fuel at the rate of 7,2 litres per 100 km depending on driving style and environment, translating to a CO2 emissions figure of 172 g/km. A top speed of 170 km/h is claimed. For more information visit BB Polokwane GWM on the corner of Landdros Mar and Devenish streets or contact them on 015 001 0300. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com Featured photo: The GMW M4 crossover has a cheeky look with lots of features. The interior is stylish and practical for every day driving