Maggy Matladi, a Grade 9 learner from Makgongoana High School in the Mankweng area has been named provincial winner of the 2017 Story Bosso contest hosted by Nal’I bali. Maggy’s story titled ‘The Unusual Recipe’ beat 700 learners from different schools who had entered the competition.
The 14-year-old who is an aspiring scriptwriter, is already a literacy leader in her community. She runs her own reading club named Rethabele (Be happy with us) with 26 members who meet weekly. Some of their reading club activities include writing scripts and plays. She says the inspiration for her Story Bosso entry comes from her observations of how people treat each other based on their perceived social standing.
She dedicated her win to her grandmother who was a storyteller. “Since my earliest childhood I have been exposed to a variety of stories. My grandmother would share with us her true stories about her life and so many folktales. When I was in Grade 3, she started narrating stories and I fell in love with storytelling. I have been narrating stories which gave birth to my writing,” Maggy said.
Rinae Sikhwari, a Story Bosso judge and Limpopo-based literacy activist described Maggy an amusing storyteller: “Her voice, tone, and the way she narrates the story holds the listener.”
According to a statement from Nal’ibali this year’s talent search attracted a record number of entries and included a provincial road show with celebrated storytellers, including Gcina Mhlope and Sindiwe Magona, giving special demonstrations of their craft to adults and children in different parts of the country. Driving the initiative at local level, Nal’ibali Literacy Mentors held over 100 auditions and entry events in seven provinces to source stories directly from communities and from Nal’ibali’s network of over 1 000 reading clubs.
Nal’ibali is a national reading-for-enjoyment campaign to spark children’s potential through storytelling and reading.
Story: Herbert Rachuene
>>herbert.observer@gmail.com
 
