Motorists were once again cautioned that traffic officers are out in full force in an effort to keep Limpopo’s roads safe as the recent statistics provided by the Department of Transport and Community Safety indicated that 99 accidents resulting in 52 fatalities occurred for the period 1 to 10 December.
During this period road accidents in Capricorn district claimed 22 lives followed by Sekhukhune with ten lives lost.
The statistics also revealed that most accidents were caused by drivers losing control (32), reckless and negligent driving (15), speeding (13) and following distance (12). Nine accidents were cause by pedestrians crossing the road unsafely.
In 64 of the accidents sedans were involved followed by bakkies (42), heavy motor vehicles (14) and minibuses (8). Further information gave a clear indication that the routes contributing to 70% of the accidents in the Capricorn District are the R71 Tzaneen road, N1, R37 Chuenespoort road, R101 and R521 Mogwadi road.
The department warned about times the roads are expected to be extremely busy being 15 December when most companies will close and well as the day after on Reconciliation Day, 22 tot 26 December for the Christmas long weekend and 30 December to 1 January during the New Years long weekend.
In an effort to ensure safer roads the department deployed 1 136 traffic officers, 32 road safety officers and 399 marked vehicles and 29 road safety vehicles on the province’s roads for the duration of the Festive Season. Furthermore, five traffic motorcycles, ten movinf violation recorder vehicles, five mobile vehicle testing stations and various prolaser speed cameras were implemented.
The department is working with the Police, local municipalities, Road Traffic Management Corporation, Road Accident Fund and the Department of Health to rid the roads of drivers causing a hazard.
Operation Ndadzi are implemented on a daily basis across the province three N1 patrol units and five traffic control centres being operational 24/7.
As of 1 December law enforcement prioritised driving under the influence of alcohol, intoxicated pedestrians, speeding, roadworthiness of vehicles and pedestrian visibility during the night.
Operation Ndadzi consists of daily speed operations, roadblocks and road side checks as well as moving violations. For the same period Operation Ndadzi has seen 40 roadblocks been set up across the province with 2 131 drivers tested and 135 arrested for drunken driving, a total of 2 611 notices issued, 23 vehicles impounded and 982 speeding fines issued.
The department urged motorists to obey the rules of the road and to refrain from drinking and driving. Pedestrians were warned to be visible and safe next to the roads and parents not to allow children to cross roads alone. They also warned motorists not to bribe traffic officers as both will face prosecution in a court of law.
Story: RC Myburgh
>>rc.observer@gmail.com
