By contradicting information provided by the Provincial Police about his arrest in connection with a charge of common robbery in Mankweng on Tuesday, a ruling party councillor of Polokwane Municipality maintains his innocence in a matter instituted by a complainant whom he labelled a young thug with a criminal history. Provincial Police spokesperson Mamphaswa Seabi said the councillor had been arrested after he handed himself over to the Police at Man kweng on Tuesday at 14:00. At the time of going to press he said the councillor was still due to appear in court during the course of the day. According to Seabi the case arose from a complaint by a car wash business owner who alleged the accused searched him and removed R500 from his possession during an incident in the Mankweng area on Saturday. He said the councillor was the only suspect in the matter. When approached at the time of going to press, Justice Mogale who represents the ANC in Ward 27, informed Polokwane Observer that he had paid R500 bail on Tuesday after being informed of a charge of common robbery against him. Mogale claimed he had been on patrol with three other community members as part of Motswikitswiki crime combating group in the vicinity of a local mall in Mankweng area at around midnight on Friday. Three of the members came upon a young man whom they warned against criminals in the area and asked whether they could search him to check for possible firearms in his possession. The person had refused permission for them to search him whereupon the man hurled insults at him in particular although he was a distance away, Mogale said. According to him he advised the others that they should leave. During the same operation earlier that day they had arrested several other suspects who were taken into custody, he said. The next thing he had heard about the matter was when he received a text about a case being opened against him and three more suspects on Tuesday and was requested to go to the Mankweng Police station where three of the four suspects paid bail, he further indicated. It was learnt that they were expected back in court on 7 March. He referred to the basis for the case as a fabrication of lies and said he would prove his innocence in court. Mogale stressed that he suspected the case was politically motivated, that they were being framed and intended to sue the complainant. I will not leave crime. I will continue fighting crime, he concluded. African National Congress Limpopo spokesperson Aluwani Netsianda said they still didn t have credible information about the arrest and circumstances surrounding the case and that they were investigating the matter. After getting all the facts we will pronounce on the organisational position. Story: YOLANDE NEL &gt;&gt;observer.yolande@gmail.com