Lexus is one of those vehicle brands where luxury, comfort and safety are a given, especially when you get behind the steering wheel of the RX or the LX Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) range. If you opt for the RX you will be treated to a chiselled exterior complemented by an elegant interior. The RX features a bold exterior of dynamic lines that frame the assertive spindle grille before building into strongly flared fenders. The seductive strength highlighted by the curves makes one want to discover what it feels like in action. The cockpit design reveals a meticulous hand-stitched dash and finishes that accent each finely-appointed corner. The seductive innovation in the details presents an exquisite experience and the discerning eye. The interior further features reverse camera monitor audio visual with Bluetooth and USB capability, 12 speakers and 8 inch display which also incorporates voice-activated navigation system. The RX boasts a powerful 3,5 litre V6 engine with 221 kW of power at 6 300 rpm and 370 Nm of torque at 4 700 rpm. The new RX is also a big improvement concerning enhancement in noise reduction, road noise, vibration and bump suppression ensuring top class comfort while driving. If the RX is still not enough the LX is sure to exceed all expectations. The powerful V8 is the flagship of the SUV range and with a sophisticated four wheel drive chassis system the Lexus LX is of the few luxury SUVs that combines sumptuous luxury with true off-road capability. The front of the LS wears an even bolder rendition of the Lexus signature spindle grille framed by elegant satin chrome trim and complemented by distinctive new standard LED headlights, turn signals and fog lights. Cutting-edge safety, navigation and performance technologies make the new LX as intelligent as it is elegant. While the dashboard contains all the bells and whistles for driver comfort the second row of seats also provides a USB port as well as control for the rear air conditioning and audio. The LX comes in a 4,5 litre V8 diesel which produces 195 kW of power and 650 Nm of torque. Also available is the monster machine in the form of a 5,7 litre petrol engine delivering 270 kW of power and 530 Nm of torque. This engine is combined with an eight-speed paddle shift automatic transmission for dynamic and smooth gear changes. Story and photos: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com Featured photo: The new Lexus LX is the iconic SUV flagship. The Lexus RX offers top class luxury and comfort. The RX s interior is spacious and packed with luxury features. The interior of the LX is luxurious with all the bells and whistles for a comfortable drive.