Debaters from schools in Mopani, Tzaneen and Vhembe missed out on the South African Council for English Education (Sacee) Polokwane Debating League s 13th Schools Tournament hosted by Mitchell House Preparatory School and College last Saturday as a result of the effect of ex-Dineo in their areas. Teams comprised five members and each participating school could register two teams, one senior team, from Grade 10 to Grade 12 and one junior team from Grade 8 and 9. Schools had to provide one adjudicator for every two teams registered. Ho rskool Nylstroom was welcomed as a school coming from far to attend the tournament, with Hanyani Thomo Secondary School, Boke Secondary School and Khanyisa Education Centre apologising because they couldn t attend as the result of the adverse weather conditions over the weekend which made travelling difficult. Local schools participating were Capricorn High School, Eagle s Nest Christian School, Ho rskool Noorderland, Ho rskool Nylstroom, Khaiso Secondary School, Mitchell House School, Northern Academy Secondary School, PEPPS College Polokwane and Taxila Secondary School. The first motion to be debated by the seniors was about supporting the rise of the anti-hero in the media and the juniors on regretting the existence of Valentine s Day. Other topics for seniors included that the teams would require democratic states to hold a referendum to ratify any free trade agreements, technology companies with significant market shares should not be eligible for patent protection and the lack of investment in teachers is the greatest barrier to achieving universal primary education. Juniors topics also included that feminism ruins family dynamics, the increased use of referendums and to outlaw arranged marriages. The tournament was in the form of a round robin with four rounds. Of the ten senior teams, the overall winner was PEPPS Polokwane College, with 3 wins and 970 points, second was Taxila Secondary School with 3 wins and a total of 951 points and Capricorn Secondary School was third with 2 wins and 974 points. The winner of the 44 participating senior speakers was Mahlako Kgomoeswana from Capricorn Secondary School with 71,25%, followed by Gabrielle de Necker, Eagle s Nest Christian School with 71% and Munaka Munyai from PEPPS Polokwane College with 70,75%. Of the eight junior teams, Taxila Secondary School was the overall winner with 4 wins and 974 points, followed by Capricorn B with 3 wins and 978 points and Capricorn C with 3 wins and 945,5 points. There were 37 participants in the junior speakers category and the first two positions were taken by Taxila Secondary School learners Thabang Maisela with 70,7%, followed by Reneilwe Seroka with 70,5% and Alicia Mmethie from Eagle s Nest Christian School with 69,3% in the third position. The next tournament will take place in May, with the provincial qualifier in September. More details can be found on saceepolokwane.org.za or e-mailing tlou@sacceepolokwane.org.za. Story and photo: NELIE ERASMUS &gt;&gt;nelie.observer@gmail.com The Junior Winning Team from Taxila Secondary School comprises Thabang Maisela, Ramasela Mokoena, Reneilwe Seroka, Naledi Sebati and Kganthe Legodi. (photos supplied) The best junior speakers of the tournament are Thabang Maisela and Reneilwe Seroka from Taxila Secondary School and Alicia Mmethie from Eagle s Nest Christian School. The senior winners from PEPPS Polokwane College are Munaka Munyai, Reitumetse Kganyago, Madzanga Ramabulana and Janco de Klerk. The best senior speakers are Mahlako Kgomoeswana from Capricorn Secondary School, Gabrielle de Necker from Eagle s Nest Christian School and Munaka Munyai from PEPPS Polokwane College.