The new Chevrolet Trailblazer is not only tough but also seriously stylish and built for those who dare to take on the wild side of life. The iconic-styled Trailblazer comes equipped with lots of innovative technology, advanced active safety features, improved noise, vibration and harshness, as well as improved ride and handling. It is designed to keep you on track wherever your passions take you and always ready to step in when needed. With a sculpted new look the new Trailblazer echoes the styling cues that distinguish Chevrolet from everything else on the road from its signature dual-port grille to a refreshed front and bold new headlamp design. A streamlined and strikingly iconic hood design, bold grille and headlamps are all hallmarks of the newly designed front end. The new LED daytime running headlamp design anchors safety and attention with sleek contours that complement its tough muscular frame. Step inside and you are met by an interior which is impressive and inviting. Premium leather seats with accent stitching, a fresh new centre stack and an electrically adjustable driver s seat draw first attention. And with a second and third row that folds flat, the new Trailblazer offers an ideal combination of space distribution, adaptability and intelligent comfort that can be tailored to fit your idea of fun. The redesigned instrument cluster panel and centre stack stitched with new aesthetics to really bring the iconic Chevrolet legacy to life. The new centre stack houses your vehicle s controls with access to selected safety features. The stylish new instrument cluster panel houses all the relevant engine and vehicle information that you need. One can enjoy generous storage space to allow every aspect of your lifestyle to fit in with ease and comfort. The Trailblazer is available in two engine variants a 2,5 litre and a 2,8 litre diesel. The new 2,5 litre engine is powerful, reliable and complemented by a thoughtfully refined suspension that s fluid and responsive. This Variable Geometry Turbo engine on the LT Auto model delivers 132 kW of power, 440 Nm of torque and the kind of driving performance that continues, even when the road ends. The 2,8 litre engine is an eager performer which delivers 144 kW of power and 500 Nm of torque. Coupled with a smooth-shifting 6-speed automatic transmission, the Trailblazer will take you places never been seen before. When it comes to safety Chevrolet did not compromise. It comes packed with a host of available driver assist technologies, including strategically located radar sensors around the vehicle to protect you and your passengers. This, along with front and rear Park Assist, Tyre Pressure Deflation Detection and seven airbags, makes it worthy of its five star safety status. Side Blind Zone Alert entails LED-lit symbols on both exterior mirrors alerting you when another vehicle ventures into one of your blind spot zones. Forward Collision Alert uses a high-resolution camera to scan for vehicles ahead and alert you to a potential crash risk with both audible and visual alerts. Rear-cross Traffic Alert uses radar sensors to warn you of objects crossing your path as you back out of a parking lot and visual and audible alerts are triggered if moving vehicles are detected. For more information visit Westvaal Polokwane at 86 Landdros Mar Street or contact them on 015 297 114. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com A luxurious and comfortable interior for the ultimate experience. 