The new Volvo S90 recently arrived in the city and offers a luxury experience of intelligent, beautiful design working in harmony with cutting-edge innovation. The new Volvo S90 boasts a combination of exquisite natural materials with sophisticated, intuitive technology that continues the journey started by the manufacturer in the XC90. Swedish luxury is about the beauty of simplicity, using natural and simple details to express the Scandinavian heritage enjoyed and celebrated at Volvo Cars since its creation in 1927. The exterior design of the S90 defines the car s character, communicating solidity and confidence. The gloss black grille and lower grille and bumper inserts, 21-inch alloy wheels and integrated tailpipes create a car that stands out. From the aggressive nose with larger intakes to the rear diffuser with dual tailpipes, the Volvo S90 exudes confidence at every corner. Volvo is all about safety and innovation and the S90 s cockpit offers a host of clever safety features within a luxurious and comfortable cabin. Inside the seats, steering wheel with gearshift paddles, carbon fibre decor inlays and a charcoal headlining create a purposeful, focused mood. It s an invitation to get in and drive. Everything Volvo Cars does is designed around people and every innovation they make is designed to simplify and improve the lives of people. That is why the family sedan S90 advances innovative systems such as Drive-E, Sensus and IntelliSafe. Sensus Connect is standard and you can stream music from your device via Bluetooth. Bluetooth or Wi-Fi tethering can be used to connect the car to internet. With Sensus Navigation you can review your route on the centre display with touch screen functionality. IntelliSafe features City Safety, a low-speed collision avoidance technology that helps prevent accidents at speeds up to 50 km/h. Volvo is the first manufacturer to include this feature as standard in all new models. Volvo also developed Pedestrian Detection, a system that detects pedestrians and brakes the car when necessary. Cyclist and large animal detection systems are recently added to the Volvo range. Drive-E engines combine the low fuel consumptions and emissions of a four cylinder engine with the performance of a six or eight cylinder. The result is a smooth powerful ride with fewer stops at the pumps. The S90 is available in diesel and two petrol engine variants. The monster of the four engines available, the 2,0 litre T6 all wheel drive is coupled with an automatic transmission and delivers a powerful 235 kW of power and 400 Nm of torque. This commanding engine offers 7,2 litre of fuel per 100 km on a combined cycle and can reach a top speed of 250 km/h. The 2,0 litre D5 all wheel drive diesel engine eagerly delivers 173 kW of power and 480 Nm of torque. When you need a money safer the D5 is perfect and uses only 4,8 litre of fuel per 100 km on a combined cycle. Visit MGM Volvo Polokwane at 64 Hans van Rensburg Street or contact us at 015 590 3121. Story:RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com The interior is pure Volvo packed with sophisticated luxury, comfort and safety features.