They say not to judge a book by its cover and therefore the Suzuki Jimny has no reason to feel intimidated when competing with rivals much bigger, stronger and more expensive. In 1968, Suzuki introduced to the world the concept of rugged and lightweight 4x4s that could go anywhere and do almost anything and the world has been having heaps of fun with them ever since. And over 40 year later the Suzuki Jimny carries on the tradition from its predecessors. The Suzuki Jimny is small but it sure has its benefits. Its neat size makes it ideal for zipping around town and getting in and out of places bigger cars can t handle especially when taking on the unseen of Limpopo. Whether it is to your favourite secret fishing spot or your dream camping site, no matter how far away and secluded it may be, the Jimny will take you there. The cabin design is based on advanced ergonomic studies that determine the most natural placement and shape of all components. The stress-free driving position will keep you feeling fresh on the longest of journeys. The display includes engine temperature readouts, a digital clock, gear and transfer case indicator, fuel economy readout and a trip meter. Electric windows, mirrors and power locks on the doors can be operated by a fingertip with master controls comfortably within reach for the driver. Power assisted steering makes for easier manoeuvrability. Its space-efficient layout seats four passengers in comfort. Headroom is more than ample and Suzuki managed to carve out extra inches for feet, knees and elbows. The rear seats fold back independently to make room for luggage of different shapes and sizes. Those who say dynamite come in small packages were right. Do not let the 1,3 litre petrol engine fool you. It is small but still offers 63 kW of power at 6 000 rpm and 110 Nm of torque at 4 100 rpm. The engine is coupled with either a five speed manual or a four speed automatic transmission. Both the manual and automatic transmission s reliable 16 valve VVT engines have the power and flexibility to tackle city streets or tough off-road terrain, giving you the confidence you need in any condition. Unlike the soft-roaders that try and compete with it, the Suzuki Jimny has all the attributes of a true 4&#215;4. Its sturdy three section ladder frame chassis means it can handle the toughest going. The live front and rear axles and three-link coil suspension with independent absorbers give you better ground clearance in all conditions. On the road and in the rough, its high-performance features make handling easy for professionals and novices alike. The Jimny stops as smoothly and surely as it goes. High-performance Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) brakes are utilised on all four wheels. Despite ABS the Jimny also offers other safety features such as dual front airbags side impact door beams and immobiliser. For more information on the Suzuki Jimny visit BB Group Suzuki Polokwane at 91 Landdros Mar Street at the BB Honda dealership or contact them on 015 297 0140. Story and photos: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com The interior offers ample head and legroom.