The fight against crime remains priority with Police in the province and continues to yield good results as was the case when operations carried out in Sebayeng, Namakgale, Thohoyandou and Thabazimbi on the weekend saw seven highly wanted suspects arrested. Provincial Police Spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe said two suspects were arrested at Makhushane and Mashishimale villages in Namakgale in connection with an alleged series of burglaries in the area. We recovered a computer, groceries, shoes, two television sets and three speakers, Ngoepe said. In Thohoyandou Police arrested three suspects believed to have been terrorising communities in the area by robbing them and breaking into their houses. The trio will face charges of possession of an unlicensed firearm and suspected stolen property. We confiscated a rifle and four rounds of live ammunition, two deep freezers, a hotplate, a microwave oven, 12 cell phones, a digital camera, a drill, two office chairs, two hair clippers, three blankets, a duvet, a jungle knife, two passports and four school bags, Ngoepe said. In Sebayeng near Mankweng a suspect was arrested for possession of an unlicensed firearm after a revolver of which the serial number was filed off was found hidden inside a mattress in his bedroom. The firearm was found to be the one which was robbed from an on-duty security officer in Mankweng during a business robbery last year, according to Ngoepe. He added that the suspect will appear in respective courts in due course. Meanwhile Police in Bela-Bela arrested a suspect on a charge of possession of drug on Sunday. He was in possession of 800 sachets of nyaope with an estimated street value of R40 000. R36 390 in cash was also confiscated. The fight against the mushrooming of drugs in Limpopo has being strengthened because we have brought together various Police units on an ongoing process to demolish all the hotspots. More drug related arrests are expected soon, Ngoepe said. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com