While spectators were disappointed following the cancellation of the United States of America (USA) vs South Africa Invitation Spirit Challenge due to wet conditions, the overall feeling was that the event was a success, especially with Sport, Arts and Culture MEC Onicca Moloi being present at the event and even taking part in a few laps. Moloi addressed the drivers and asked them to reach out to young people in townships. Competitors in all the other classes were able to complete all three heats. The event finished at 01:00 with prize giving commencing at about 01:30 on Sunday. Polokwane Oval Secretary Janine van Breda said due to safety reasons the Sprint drivers called it a day after the first heat. These are high performance vehicles and safety always comes first. Some of the engines also malfunctioned due to the wet conditions, she said, adding that the scores for Sprint drivers were calculated by combining their qualifying round score with that of the first heat. Jacques Roos took first place in the Sprints. First places in other classes went to Dylan van der Westhuizen, Ninja Midgets; Roean van Breda, Rookies; Johan Thiart, Stockrods; Heath Bent, 1660 Modifieds; Desmond Bosch, 2,1 litre Modifieds and Jacques Cronj , Hotrods. Full results for the USA vs. South Africa Invitational Sprint Challenge Ninja Midgets 1. Dylan vd Westhuizen 2. Marlie Saaiman 3. Jayden Bent Rookies 1. Roean van Breda 2. Roeline van Breda 3. Jeandre Nortje Stockrods 1. Johan Thiart 2. Hennie de Koker 3. Nico Erasmus 1660 Modifieds 1. Heath Bent 2. JJ Fourie 3. Dylan Bosch 2.1 litre Modifieds 1. Desmond Bosch 2. Rudolph Durant 3. Andre Swart Hotrods 1. Jacques Cronje 2. Andre Pienaar Sprints 1. Jacques Roos 2. Jimmy Mcune 3. Quintin Saayman Story and photos: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com Rookie driver Roeline van Breda about to enter the raceway for her qualifying round. She finished second overall in her category. American Sprint driver Jimmy Mcune claimed overall second place.