An act of goodwill by good Samaritans, including international aid organisation Gift of the Givers, to scores of dwellers affected by an earlier fire in an industrial hub in Tzaneen in April this year has been marred by claims of alleged abuse of state resources. Concern from the ground alleged intervention from a higher office resulting in persons not at immediate risk &#8211; and linked to a high-ranking officer &#8211; having been collected by Police vehicles from a village miles away, while actual needy individuals could not all get the earmarked assistance in the wake of an earlier disaster that day. According to sources help arrived on 6 April this year after a fire gutted dwellings at Talana Hostel in an industrial area in town on 17 March, resulting in food parcels and blankets being distributed to those in need at a joint operations centre of the Police s cluster office in Tzaneen. However, little over two months later claims of alleged abuse of state resources have now surfaced. Sources pointed at residents of Babanana Village allegedly having been collected along with Talana Hostel dwellers by two Police vehicles dispatched by the cluster office on 6 April when the donation was made. It is alleged that community members were collected to be taken to town to fetch packs, being in excess of the actual estimated 60 pre-identified recipients. The sources further claimed that those community members collected included relatives of a high-ranking official attached to the cluster office and who hailed from the village in the Nwamitwa area. Through further investigations it was established that 67 affected dwellers were perceived to have been in need of help, but that only 54 could get assistance through intervention from role players. One of the sources pointed out that about half of the estimated 60 recipients affected by the disaster could not be present that day and that their donations could not be received by other individuals on their behalf. In this vein the source expressed concern that in the meantime people at no immediate risk who had perceived to have been collected from an outlying village were identified for donations instead. Documentation made available to Polo kwa ne Observer sheds light on the log registers of Police vehicles allegedly used to collect residents of Babanana Village some 30 km from Tzaneen that day, linking it to orders from the high-ranking officer. An inscription in the log for the first of the two vehicles, a Mercedes-Benz kombi used for crime prevention purposes by Tzaneen Police Station, seemingly points out that the vehicle had made a return trip when travelling to the Police s Cluster Office, proceeding to Babanana Village and back to town to collect public members at Talana Hostel to take them to the Joint Operation Centre (JOC) at Tzaneen Dam on 6 April this year. The registration for the vehicle was confirmed to be BRZ572B. The second log register shows the inscription for a trip by a response vehicle, a Toyota Quantum mini-bus with registration number BTY139B allocated to the Tzaneen Cluster Office, to Babanana Village for collecting community members to JOC operation that day. It was stressed that the vehicle was allocated to the cluster for response to emergency situations. A source pointed out that the mileage of 124 km on the log of the first vehicle coincided with the estimated distance to the village measured from town. The second log depicting a trip of 397 km would have meant other duties were performed during the same trip, the source confirmed. Gift of the Givers response Gift of the Givers National Head of Govern-ment and Corporate Affairs, Badr Kazi confirmed the donation, explaining that three of their representatives have distributed 100 food parcels and 100 blankets at the Tzaneen JOC on 6 April this year. There had been no left-overs from the donations dropped off in Tzaneen on that specific day, Kazi stated. He said they had been informed by the Police that 100 persons needed assistance, confirming the name of the high-ranking officer as the person having made the request for help. The name corresponded with that of the person pinpointed by Polokwane Observer s sources. Kazi emphasised that all protocols have been followed and that those were the best protocols. The cost of their donation of food parcels and blankets was calculated at between R355 000 and R405 000. Police comment When the Limpopo Police were approached for comment, spokesperson Mampashwa Seabi responded by text saying Police management were not aware of the incident and if there was any person aware of it they should immediately report it to the nearest Police station, the Provincial Police Commissioner or other government institutions, including the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid). He further stressed the Police were hands on and committed to eradication of any form of corruption or criminality within its ranks without any fear, favour or prejudice. He added that no case had been opened following the two vehicles having allegedly been sent to collect relatives of the high-ranking officer to fetch the donations. Story: YOLANDE NEL &gt;&gt;observer.yolande@gmail.com Photos: Supplied The photo shows community members reportedly converging on the JOC at the Tzaneen Cluster Office to collect parcels and blankets.