With cases of avian influenza, commonly referred to as bird flu, being reported in Mpumalanga and Zimbabwe, the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development is confident that poultry farmers in Limpopo won t experience the disease. Departmental Spokesperson Selby Makgotho explained that agriculture communications personnel from all nine provinces attended a national gathering in Pretoria last Thursday to present their state of readiness report to Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Minister Senzeni Zokwana. He said Limpopo is in the spotlight since the province neighbours on Zimbabwe. He urged poultry farmers not to panic because precautionary measures are in place. Famers should get in touch with the department for constant updates on the disease. The department alerted poultry owners about the eminent threat of avian influenza when Zimbabwe reported their first case at the end of May, he said. He added that there has been no outbreak in the province yet and assured farmers that the department was on full alert. According to Makgotho the department hosts awareness campaigns targeting poultry farmers in the province. In a statement released last Thursday Zokwana was quoted to have said avian influenza was an influenza virus classified as either highly or low pathogenic by the World Organisation for Animal Health. The type that has been reported is the highly pathogenic one which is extremely contagious. He further said that the department, in its alert notification, called for all chicken keepers to observe basic biosecurity measures in order to prevent contact with wild birds. This can be achieved on commercial farms by improving biosecurity and on free range farms by simply removing feed and water from where it attracts wild birds, the statement advised. Despite the warnings, the disease still managed to get into our flocks. Two cases were reported in Mpumalanga since 22 June, one at a broiler breeder farm in Villiers and another at an egg laying farm in Standerton. No cases have been reported so far in any other province. Our team of veterinarians has swiftly responded to this threat. We have placed the affected farms under quarantine and the affected birds have been euthanized and the eggs destroyed, he emphasised. He added that there have been several calls to permit vaccination against the disease but his team of experts advised the department that this will not be in the best interest of both the country and the producers. Vaccination of birds will create an endemic situation, affect surveillance efforts and affect the export certification because all the trade partners only want products from a country that is free of avian influenza where vaccination is not practised, outlined Zokwana. He further urged chicken owners, farmers and the public to remain vigilant and all cases of high mortalities in chickens and other birds should be reported to the nearest State Veterinarian. Story: ENDY SENYATSI &gt;&gt;endy@observer.co.za