Few other motor vehicle dealerships make owning a vehicle as easy and cost effective as Imperial Select Polokwane where the team will bend over backwards to make the purchasing process enjoyable. MC Linde, Sales Manager at Imperial Select Polokwane says his team s first priority is every client s needs. We pride ourselves on excellent service both before and after sales. At Imperial Select Polokwane the client is king and we will do everything in our power to help our clients find the most suitable vehicle for their personal requirements, he says. Imperial Select offers a wide variety of new, used and demonstration vehicles from well known brands at prices that fits most people s pockets. If you re in the market to buy a car, you may not have access to a large amount of money or do not want to deplete your hard-earned savings. This is why Imperial Select offers financial assistance with every car purchase. We want you to drive away smiling, not drive away with no money to spare. Our financial services guarantee convenience, fast approval and competitive rates, Linde says. Imperial Select also offers peace of mind with a selection of added value products available at the client s discretion. These include service plans, maintenance plans, extended warranties, road side assistance, insurance, deposit cover, and tyre and rim insurance. All of these products are designed to take the strain off the client s finances should the unexpected happen. The dealership also offers Crystal Fusion. More than just a coating that can peel and blister over time, Crystal Fusion molecularly fuses with glass to form a hydrophobic barrier. It enhances visibility in bad weather and strengthens the automotive glass surface. As a result, water beads and rolls away and small road debris ricochets off the glass. Imperial Select Polokwane s sales team comprises Ladwin Shikwambana, Christo Herholdt and Albert Motswalakgosi. They agree that top class service is what sets this dealership apart from others. With Imperial Select you have peace of mind when you buy a car from us, that all of our products and services are of the highest quality available to the motor car industry, and that you will be taken care of with the utmost professionalism and excellent before and after-sales service, says Linde on behalf of the team. Imperial Select Polokwane is situated at 102 Tagore Street in Ladanna and can be contacted on 015 292 9300. Shikwambana can be contacted on 082 214 1843, Herholdt on 072 242 4492 and Motswalakgosi on 079 274 5621. Story and photos: MARKI FRANKEN &gt;&gt;marki.observer@gmail.com MC Linde is Imperial Select Polokwane s Sales Manager. Imperial Select Polokwane Sales Executives, Albert Motswalakgosi, Christo Herholdt and Ladwin Shikwambana are ready to help clients find the perfect vehicles.