The cold, hard spine-chilling reality of the rumblings in the belly of a beast hit a select audience in the face when they gathered in Polokwane last Wednesday for a debate on a comprehensive state capacity research project report focussing on how South Africa was being stolen. The 67-page report titled Betrayal Of The Promise: How South Africa Is Being Stolen was the centre of a flagship discussion seen to launch the first of a series of conversations facilitated by the Ethical Foundation for Leadership Excellence in Limpopo and made it the first discussion of the report outside Johannesburg and Cape Town after publication in May this year. The report was compiled by four leading researchers from four universities and their respective research teams, including an independent journalist opting for a pseudonym. Before commencement of the evening programme Ethical Foundation for Leadership Excellence Board Chairperson Mautji Pataki explained that they had gotten the ball rolling with the event, saying that they wanted people to talk about topical issues and that the leadership issue in the country should be a topical one. The report, that has not been under much discussion by South African audiences thus far, made people wiser as an electorate and participative citizens he said and conceded that it was part of South Africa s history. The audience that met at a local establishment was quite diverse and the guests were considered friends of the foundation and opinion-makers chosen for their past expression of beliefs and opinions, Pataki announced as he welcomed those present. In taking to the podium one of the nine co-authors of the report, Ivor Chipkin who is a professor attached to the Public Affairs Research Institute and the University of the Witwatersrand, referred to the report as a compelling argument based on the most up-to-date analysis of available evidence. The terms of analysis he believed were convincing and compelling. Outlining the report he said that with the broader argument, which was the innovation and importance of the report, they had tried to push back against the idea that what they were dealing with was simply a phenomenon of criminality and corruption, for which there was overwhelming evidence. What they argued was that what was seen today needed to be seen in the context of a political project which had enormous value and turned in interesting ways in about 2011. The starting point for the project was the Polokwane conference of 2007, argued to be representing not just a revolt in the African National Congress (ANC) but a revolt against a particular analysis of South Africa s political economy and the trajectory emerging under former Presidents Thabo Mbeki and Nelson Mandela. The preface describes it as an interdisciplinary, inter-university research partnership aimed to contribute to the public debate about state capture in South Africa, an issue that has dominated public debate about the future of democratic governance in the country ever since the publication of the Public Protector s 2016 State of Capture report officially documenting the way in which President Jacob Zuma and senior government officials have colluded with a shadow network of corrupt brokers. There is reference to intensified calls for Zuma to resign and the largest protest marches since the advent of democracy in 1994 having taken place in support of the demand. The report was initiated to remedy the limited contribution of the academic community to the ensuing discussion. It focuses, among others, on politics of betrayal, power, authority and audacity: how the shadow state was built, repurposing governance and how the capture of the state is structured. In the executive summary mention is made of the report suggesting that South Africa has experienced a silent coup that has removed the ANC from its place as the primary force for transformation in society. Resistance and capture is what South African politics is about today. The introduction to the first of five chapters kicks off with the statement that it is now clear that while the ideological focus of the ANC is radical economic transformation, in practice Zuma s presidency is aimed at repurposing state institutions to consolidate the Zuma-centred power elite. Whereas the former appears to be a legitimate long-term vision to structurally transform South Africa s economy to eradicate poverty and reduce inequality and unemployment, the latter popularly referred to as state capture threatens the viability of the state institutions that need to deliver on this long-term vision. Delving further into South African history, attention is fixed on the 1993 arrival of the Gupta family from India, their reported involvement in South African affairs and an identified modus operandi they tend to follow when set out to achieve an outcome. Aligned to the references is the setting out of a time frame depicting how the Guptas have established themselves in the country. In the chapter on repurposing governance it is referenced that the state, in short, is being turned into an undevelopmental mishmash of apparatuses connected via the networks that manage the symbiotic relationship between the constitutional and shadow states. The last chapter of the hard-hitting report features how the capture of the state is structured and gives a breakdown of the skill sets of the patronage network localised within a number of groups. It continues to name the controllers, the elites, the entrepreneurs or brokers and the dealers at work. The recommendations for resolving the current crisis include that the Gupta-Zuma network comprising 12 companies and 15 individuals that holds together the symbiotic relationship between the constitutional and shadow state needs to be broken and dismantled, a required new national economic consensus and thirdly, all stakeholders in particular the political actors who will replace the Zuma-centred power elite at some point in future, must commit to realising the vision of a new economic consensus within the framework of the Constitution and relevant legislation. Story &amp; photos: YOLANDE NEL &gt;&gt;observer.yolande@gmail.com