The impact of social media and fake news in instigating communities who enter into acts of vigilantism when committing heinous crimes by taking law into their own hands, is of major concern to the Police in Limpopo. The effects thereof in the executing of crime became apparent in a follow-up of leads to earlier crime-related incidents alleged to have occurred to the West of Polokwane when Police spokesmen expressed huge concern about the phenomenon of lives at risk when information gets spread in a reckless fashion. For months now Polo kwane Observer has reported on the prevalence of occurrences of what was reported to be jungle justice across Limpopo and caution repeatedly expressed by Provincial Police Commissioner Nneke Ledwaba following such instances. The level of violence displayed in the carrying out of mob justice and the unrelenting nature of hordes of attackers at a time prevented the publication of certain images captured on such scenes. In an interview this week Provincial Police Corporate Communications Head Motlafela Mojapelo stressed that the Police did not speculate but dealt with hard facts when investigating crime. They couldn t prevent people from using social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook but urged communities to rely on official statements from the Police when relating to incidents of crime, he emphasised. He referred to the example of an alleged kidnapping of a woman at the University of Limpopo going viral on social media in the recent past that couldn t be verified by the Police. One incident of mob justice was one too many, Mojapelo emphasised. If a single incident had occurred it should worry the Police for it conveyed the message that communities didn t have trust in their capabilities to investigate crimes, remarked Mojapelo. He further stressed that the South African legal system determined that a person was presumed innocent until proven guilty in a court of law. In the same vein he highlighted an incident that led to the alleged murder of two targets construed to be responsible for the disappearance of a 17-year-old at Mecklenburg last month. The entire investigation had been jeopardised due to the killing of presumed witnesses of the crime, remarked Mojapelo. In listing a similar scenario, he referred to a 36-year-old man expected to appear in court at the time of going to print for alleged murder of a 41-year-old man, suspected of a spate of thefts, in Ntwane Village on the weekend. Turning to a series of attacks mainly aimed at foreign nationals &#8211; in a section of Polokwane s Central Business District (CBD) of which the first was reportedly committed in mid-March this year, he described it as pure acts of vigilantism committed by people taking short cuts in solving crime. Mojapelo attested to a significant decrease in activities downtown due to intensified crime-combating efforts and cases being registered. Ironically members of Polokwane Observer s editorial team fell victim to a large mob that claimed their cameras after taking photos on one such scene in Boom Street on 28 March. However, the attackers reverted to acts of pure criminality when further looting whatever they could lay their hands on that morning. Mojapelo conceded that they had received information on a private security concern allegedly armed with sjamboks linking up with taxi operators in their efforts to rid downtown Polokwane of drugs. He concluded saying they didn t encourage such acts and that the Police had structures in place to deal with criminality. Story: YOLANDE NEL &gt;&gt;observer.yolande@gmail.com