With close to 29 modelling titles under her belt, 10-year-old Mahlatse Mabotja is on her way to Lesotho to represent South Africa at the Miss Queen Of Globe International pageant in November. Mahlatse started modelling when, encouraged by her mother, she was only four years old. Her mother s remark that she was a beautiful person both on the inside and the outside has motivated her through her modelling career Mahlatse said. She won her first big titles, including Miss Summer Glam Tzaneen First Princess, Miss Charity Polokwane First Princess, Miss Rainbow Polokwane First Princess, Miss Dignity Limpopo Second Princess and Limpopo Beauty Ambassador, in 2015 when she competed in the age 7 to 9 category. The next year and still in the same category, she continued to rake in the titles such as Miss Top Model Polokwane, Miss Summer Glitz Mpumalanga, Miss Face of Polokwane First Princess, Miss Polokwane Observer First Princess, Miss Queen of the North, Face of Tzaneen Mall Second Princess, Miss Tzaneen Lifestyle Mall, Limpopo Beauty Ambassador, Toddler and Tween Limpopo Ambassador in Klerksdorp, Face of South Africa Second Princess in Pretoria and Miss Public Choice second princess. Her career reached new heights this year when she advanced to the age 10 to 12 category in which she has so far won Miss Limpopo Toyota Polokwane, Miss Humanity International, Little Miss Galaxy International Second Princess, Little Miss Beauty World Second Princess, Queen of the North, Miss Elite Public Choice winner for December, January, February and March, Miss Elite Provincial Winner for Limpopo and Miss Face of Limpopo. With all her successes Mahlatse has gained important experience when it comes to pageants. The most valuable lesson she learnt was to persevere: In the beginning of my career I always expected to win at the start of a pageant, but I usually felt disappointed and felt like quitting every time I didn t win. But my modelling teacher, Katryn Cilliers told me that she had to enter several pageants before she won something and that gave me new hope. As a passionate model Mahlatse often has to endure criticism from other models or their parents, she explained but according to her she learned to focus on the task at hand regardless of what people say. In cases of criticism she clings to the saying: Give a girl the right shoe and she will conquer the world, she said. Mahlatse was born in 2007 in Polo kwane and started her school career at Laerskool Pietersburg-Noord Primary where she is currently in Grade 4. She aspires to become a successful lawyer after completing school and with regards to her modelling career she wants to claim the Miss South Africa title before proceeding to Miss World. Apart from modelling, Mahlatse is an avid netball player for her school, constantly achieves straight A symbols in her subjects and also loves to take part in humanitarian programmes because she loves giving to and serving other people, she said. In her message to other young women, she said: Never give up on your dreams because if you fail to plan, you plan to fail. Her role models in life are her mother, Mariah Mabotja for supporting her through all her competitions and keeping her strong when she feels like quitting, and Cilliers who makes her feel special and teaches her important values in life, like respect for others. Story and photos: THINUS DU TOIT &gt;&gt;thinus@observer.co.za Mahlatse Mabotja parades in the sash she will be wearing to the Queen of Globe international Pageant in Lesotho.