Despite delays marring the construction of the Seshego Treatment Centre of an estimated R107 million, an oversight visit by Democratic Alliance (DA) representatives last week shed light on a scenario that requires equal understanding of perceived concerns and flaws as it does grasping of revised budgets for finalisation of the project and constantly changing completion dates over several financial years. DA Shadow Minister of Police, Zakhele Mbhele and DA Shadow Deputy Minister of Social Development, Lindy Wilson, visited the Seshego Treatment Centre, a government initiative to treat drug and substance dependency, during a two-day visit to Polokwane last Wednesday and Thursday. The dual purpose of their visit focused on drug-related crimes, the law enforcement side thereof in hotspots in Polokwane and Seshego hence their call on the two Police stations a day prior as well as the welfare side of addressing the drug problem. Describing the focal points of their visit, Mbhele indicated that ideally a close partnership between the entities would have to exist. He pointed at certain design flaws in terms of control measures for an effective centre. The project was reflective of African National Congress (ANC) financial wastage and mismanagement. Taking into consideration that it would be the only treatment centre for drug dependants in the province when operational in future, perceived inability to meet patient demands from across the province, over-emphasis of features incorporated in the double-storey administrative facility where ceiling panels and light fittings pose to be missing, several design and interior flaws, the necessity of a swimming pool on the premises, identified occasional water leaks, lack of privacy in the respective wards, an inadequate kitchen set-up in the dining hall and lavish spend on furniture for staff quarters were pointers highlighted during the oversight visit. Mbhele and Wilson were accompanied by DA Limpopo Leg islature member Katlego Phala. The Department of Social Development was blamed for failure of thorough monitoring by Phala, who said the DA in Limpopo would act once it has received feedback from the Public Protector s Office which they approached on the institution of an investigation into the project in the beginning of last month to ensure officials were held accountable and in case of unauthorised expenditure taxpayers monies recovered. It was learnt that completion dates for the project had thus far been revised five times since October 2011 after it commenced in April 2010. After a host of delays in finalisation of the project including the subsequent reported liquidation of the then appointed contractor &#8211; another contractor had been appointed on 16 May this year after re-advertisement of the project on 3 March and the site was officially handed over on 6 June, explained Social Development Department Media Liaison Officer Adele van der Linde upon earlier enquiry. Completion of the project for which R96,4 million has initially been budgeted, would cost R15,6 million, she then added. At deadline time she confirmed that the contractor was on site busy with the completion of the project. We expect practical handover of the project by the end of September 2017 and thereafter the department will be putting systems in place to ensure that we operationalise the centre by the end of November 2017. Van der Linde indicated that acting Social Development MEC Phophi Ramathuba was expected to pay the project a visit tomorrow (Friday). Story &amp; photos: YOLANDE NEL &gt;&gt;observer.yolande@gmail.com Lindy Wilson, Zakhele Mbhele and Katlego Phala inspect missing ceiling panels in the double-storey administration block at the facility. Missing ceiling panels above and bird droppings and feathers below. The only sign of occupation of the Seshego Treatment Centre. One of two bedrooms in one of six staff quarters on one side of the facility. Katlego Phala at the swimming pool within the recreation area. The necessity of the pool was questioned during the oversight visit. The area incorporates a carpeted gym. A furnished boardroom with leather swivel chairs awaits occupation. Furniture in the empty dining hall, of which the kitchen was identified as being limited considering the size of the facility. Zakhele Mbhele against the backdrop of an overgrown space and staff quarters in the background.