Whatever the weather and regardless of the conditions, the new Volvo V90 Cross Country is ready for any no limit-adventure. The new V90 Cross Country s precise and beautiful design should be misleading as the Scandinavian design and craftsmanship meet true all-road, all-weather capability. Large wheels and increased ground clearance give the driver confidence on any road, while a front skid plate and wheel arch extensions blend seamlessly into the bumper. The V90 Cross Country was designed for a world that demands versatility without compromising elegance and sophistication. It is an estate car that combines powerful good looks with everyday practicality. It is packed with innovative technology that has one purpose to make life easier. On the interior a big touch screen means that the manufacturer was able to reduce the number of buttons to a minimum. The screen makes scrolling and reading maps on the navigation system also much easier. The standard Sensus Connect system allows the driver to stream music via Bluetooth which can also be used to connect the Volvo to the internet. USB ports are also available to connect any device manually. Since the birth of Volvo in 1927, keeping occupants safe was part of the manufacturer s DNA. They have pioneered safety advances and invented life-saving technologies. All cars are equipped with safety cages and laminated windscreens since 1944. Today Volvo builds vehicles which actively scan the area around the vehicle, looking out for the unexpected. City Safety is a low-speed collision avoidance system which helps prevent accidents at speeds of up to 60 km/h. Volvo is the first to equip this system as standard feature in all new models. Volvo also developed Pedestrian Detection, a system that detects pedestrians and brakes the car when necessary. The interior also features an Interior Air Quality System that checks incoming air for pollutants and closes the vents when necessary. An active carbon filter in this system helps to protect occupants from harmful gasses and unpleasant odours. When it comes to the engines Volvo offers a range of technologies to provide better efficiency and lower running costs. The Drive-E powertrains combine the low-fuel consumption and emissions of a four-cylinder engine with the performance of a six or eight cylinder engine. The results is a smooth powerful drive with fewer stops at the pumps. The V90 Cross Country is available in two diesel and two petrol engine variants. All models are All Wheel Drive (AWD). The two diesel variants offer 140 kW and 173 kW respectively while the petrol engines have 187 kW and 235 kW of power available. Among the four variants fuel consumption of between 5,2 and 7,7 litre/100 km is measured. The Volvo V90 Cross Country brings a combination of wagon practicality and off-road prowess to the executive sedan/estate market. We know that South African buyers in the premium crossover segment have limited choices, and so we are delighted that the new Volvo V90 Cross Country is now able to cater better for this discerning audience. It is the only crossover in its segment that is available in South Africa, allowing us to continue to lead with a lifestyle enabler that brings all of Volvo s latest technology and design excellence to the fore, Greg Maruszewski, Managing Director of Volvo Cars South Africa was quoted to have said. For more information or a test drive visit MGM Motors Volvo Polokwane at 64 Hans van Rensburg Street or contact them on 015 297 9700. Story and photos: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com Volvo luxury and sophisticated technology feature throughout the cabin.