A multidisciplinary approach is among the methods Police intend using in order to combat drug related crimes in the province. Polokwane is allegedly experiencing a lot of drug related crimes due to the complexity of the city. This was revealed by Polokwane Police Station Commander, Mosima Maila during an unannounced visit conducted by the Democratic Alliance (DA) Shadow Minister of Police Zakhele Mbhele last Wednesday. Mbhele and his team also visited Seshego Police Station and the apparently abandoned Seshego Treatment Centre project the following day. Maila said Polokwane is one of the most visited cities in the country and outsiders tend to take advantage of the cosmopolitan nature of the city to engage in criminal activities. Mbhele, accompanied by Suzan Phala, DA Spokesperson on Social Development and Lindy Wilson, DA Shadow Deputy Minister on Social Development, outlined that the visit follows a recent national report on drug related crimes that clearly revealed that Polokwane and Seshego Police Stations had recorded approximately 900 drug-related crimes in the previous financial year. The two stations represent almost 10% of Limpopo s drug-related crimes. Moreover, drug-related crimes have increased by an astounding 350% in Polokwane and 267% in Seshego over the past decade. Polokwane Police Station Commander, Mosima Maila explains the cause of increased drug related crimes to DA Shadow Minister of Police Zakhele Mbhele. With them are Lesiba Ramoshaba, Polokwane Police Spokesperson, Suzan Phala, DA Spokesperson on Social Development and Lindy Wilson, Lindy Wilson, DA Shadow Deputy Minister on Social Development. Mbhele said all criminal activities can be minimised by first dealing with drug lords and drug addicts. Drug addiction and related crime is rife in South Africa. It is important that we evaluate what policing strategies have been put in place and how effective they are in combating addiction and drug-related crimes. We proposed in parliament that at least R700 million should be set aside to fight criminals but the African National Congress (ANC)-led government rejected our motion. He added that drugs are the cause of crimes such as car hijacking, house robbery and murder, among others. Police stations are under-resourced, under-staffed and police are not trained well enough to know how to tackle drug lords. These crimes can be minimised through smart pro-active policing. Police should partner with software development companies and design unique software for citizens to be able to see the progress of the reported cases online without even visiting a police station, he emphasised. Asked about strategies that Police use, Maila explained that they host awareness campaigns at schools to address issues relating to violence and drugs. They also partner with stakeholders to fight crime. He added that they have daily meetings at the station to share ideas and come up with new strategies. Mbhele said the DA will embark on a national campaign in the next few months where they will be targeting drug hotspots to expose drug lords and help the Police arrest anyone who is involved in drugs. Story &amp; photos: ENDY SENYATSI &gt;&gt;endy@observer.co.za &nbsp;