The new Lexus LC 500 goes beyond setting new benchmarks of luxury, styling and performance and pushes the boundaries of driving experience. It is more than just another new luxury sports model, but rather the flagship sports coup where beauty and power are paired to create the ultimate vehicle. The exterior features are impressive, combining distinct styling with alluring high technology. The signature hourglass shape of the spindle grille is accentuated by the way the front and rear fenders flare out, while the rear subtly reinterprets and complements the front grille. The coup s long wheelbase underlines a sweeping roofline that tapers from the central position of the occupants for a uniquely human-centred silhouette. There are little other luxury brands capable of beating the Lexus when it comes to interior quality and design. The LC 500 epitomises the philosophy of Takumi Craftsmanship, which is used to the last detail throughout the interior, accentuating the elegant lines of the luxurious cabin. It is meticulously crafted from the finest materials and offering a modern, driver-focused cockpit and reflects the exterior design theme of dynamic luxury. The driving position was re-examined with just the right amount of ergonomics for the pedal layout and steering wheel angle, ensuring a comfortable distance between the driver and the vehicle. Special attention was put into the new steering wheel design to accommodate all variations of wrist grip and twisting, while larger magnesium alloy paddle shifters have been shaped for easier reach. The new Lexus multimedia package makes its debut in the LC 500 with an updated graphic interface and a Mark Levinson audio system. As the showcase vehicle for the next generation of Lexus, the driving dynamics of the LC 500 are based on three key principles: platform, transmission and suspension. The all-new Global Architecture-Luxury (GA-L) platform focuses on improving the structural rigidity of the body and suspension to enhance the driving dynamics and bring the beautiful design to life. The LC 500 utilises the brand s all-new premium rear-wheel drive platform to deliver more exhilaration behind the wheel. The 5,0 litre V8 engine delivers 351 kW of power and 540 Nm of torque. Throughout the vehicle, component weight is optimally positioned to help lower the centre of gravity and enhance driving dynamics. The multi-link suspension has been adopted on the front suspension for excellent response to steering with the newly developed ten-speed automatic transmission which has the world s fastest shift time which creates a rhythmical and continuous acceleration. For more information on the Lexus LC 500 visit Lexus Polokwane at 204 Tagore Street, Nirvana or contact them on 015 292 9500. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com The rear of Lexus LC 500 subtly reinterprets and complements the front grille. Accentuating elegant lines are seen throughout the luxurious cabin.