While the new Audi A5 Coup sets new standards with its modernised and refined design, the new Sportback is a combination of the Coup s design and the functionality of an Avant making it a superb family vehicle with sophisticated technological advanced features. The Coup s redesigned front with the optional Audi Matrix LED headlights even performs its dynamic function while idling. Technically the Sport Coup is state of the art &#8211; in addition to the new body, the Coup impresses with a completely new chassis, high-performance drive technology, innovative infotainment equipment and driver assistance systems. The design refinement of the Coup s includes the shoulder line, which now runs in three dimensions in the form of a wave. The clear Coup front is even flatter and more athletic and the single-frame grille is wider. The long hood, stretched wheelbase and short overhangs underscore the sportiness of the new Coup . The interior is lush containing all the bells and whistles. The optional Audi virtual cockpit provides razor sharp presentation of the navigation, telephone, music, Audi connect service and assistance system. The optional Audi smartphone interface integrates the familiar world of Google and Apple with your Audi. The performance of the TDI and TFSI engines ranges from 140 kW to 210 kW and all units are more powerful and at the same time more efficient than their predecessors especially the two 3,0-litre TDI six-cylinder. When it comes to the A5 Sportback the powerfully flowing outline with the characteristic waveform of the shoulder line lends it a true aesthetic grace. Under the beautiful shell, the five-door model impresses with newly developed chassis, powerful drives, along with innovative infotainment and connectivity solutions. The Sportback s waveform of the shoulder line was already an identifying characteristic of the predecessor and has now been reproduced even more prominently. Depending on the features, the radiator grille is designed in discreet, dull black or twilight grey while the tail has clear horizontal and three-dimensional lines. The interior is spectacular. In the fields of connectivity and infotainment the Audi virtual cockpit with 12,3 inches TFT screen, the Bang &amp; Olufsen 3D sound system and the Audi Rear Seat Entertainment option are available. In comparison to the previous model, the standard equipment has also been upgraded for the standard version: among other things, this includes xenon headlamps with LED daytime running lights and LED rear lights, the Audi MMI Radio with 7-inch colour display and three-spoke multi-function leather steering wheel. The Sportback is equipped with the same engines as the Coup . Irrespective of whether it is the six-speed manual gearbox, seven-speed S tronic or eight-speed tiptronic, in combination with front or quattro drive &#8211; each engine of the new Audi A5 Sportback makes the most of customised technology to put powerful excellence on the road. For more information or to view these models visit Audi Polokwane at their new building on the corner of Nelson Mandela Drive and Grobler Street or contact them on 015 590 8800. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com