An ethnologist at the Department of Cooperative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs (Coghsta), Paul Fambe (63) was among the officials recognised and awarded for their hard work and dedication during the 2017 Departmental Service Excellence Awards held in Polokwane last Thursday. Fambe, former Thohoyandou town manager, was presented with a Long Service Certificate in recognition of his contribution during 40 years of service. His fellow employee Steven Ramugondo received the same certificate after four decades of service. Head of Department (HOD) Ngaka Mosehana said the awards seek to recognise the efforts of all departmental directorates, teams and divisions which have rendered outstanding performances in service delivery. They also aim to promote creative performance in good governance and to inculcate a culture of accountability within the department. Teams of officials in the department were recognised in various categories such as best service delivery team, best support team, best initiative team and best traditional council office. Individuals who worked at the department for periods of 20 and 30 years were also rewarded in the long service awards category. The Community Development Programme (CDP) team was named the Best Service Delivery Team while the Best Support Team award went to ICT Infrastructure and Systems. The award for Best Initiative Team was given to Human Resource Capacity Development (HRCD) Internship and Learnerships while Dzumeri Traditional Council Office walked away with the Best Traditional Council Office award. Fambe started working for Coghsta on 12 April 1976 while he was still stationed in Venda and joined the office in Polokwane in 1999. He said his duties as an ethnologist mostly relate to the affairs of traditional leaders, attending funerals and appointment of traditional leaders. He wished to be part of the traditional council to learn more about different cultures. He further said dealing with traditional issues is simple and his biggest wish was to educate young people about their respective traditions. When asked about the challenges faced in the industry, Fambe said one of the biggest challenges he faces is when families don t agree on the appointment of a successor. I received a number of threats regarding this but what I normally do is refer the matter to the House of Traditional Leaders for a solution. The problem with the succession usually unfolds if the king did not marry a candle wife. My job is pleasant when we agree on a decision but things get sour when there are disputes because sometimes people even try to give me a bribe for me to side with them. It makes me happy when I succeed in resolving disputes within the royal family, he explained. The award is Fambe s first and he stressed that he was delighted to finally receive a token of appreciation for his work. He further said he did not have a qualification relating to his job and does not need one because he had been trained by an old and experienced ethnologist in Venda. Fambe is set to retire in 2019 at the age of 65 and said he will definitely share his experience and knowledge with youth for them to consider being ethnologists. He thanked the department for honouring him. Story and photos: ENDY SENYATSI &gt;&gt;endy@observer.co.za The achievers awarded during the Cooperative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs (Coghsta) 2017 Departmental Service Excellence Awards held in Polokwane last Thursday. 20 years service: David Mulaudzi, Tshiskhawe L, Papo S, Mathata SV, Tlale MF, Shilatjoe TC, Tshivhula MJ, Thobetjane PM, Chuene RC, Niewoudt L, Selowa MP, Mudau K, Mhangwana SX, Shokane NM, Ramulongo BD, Letsoalo MA, Shilubana M, Selotana SN, Hlonyana SM, Mathunyane MA, Selemela PJ and Schoeman-Groenewald C. 30 years service: Mathonsi RP, Mdaka PA, Ramuhashi SG, Makhubelel HI, Mufamadi TS, Ramulifho C, Mathonsi TC, Rose Bungeni, Makoko MG, Khosa T, Nukeri VG, Mthombeni HP, Sithole TW, Maluleke TR, Masingi ME, Gumani NR, Tshilate SL, Masithulela J, Tshivhuyahuvhi IT, Maimela AM, Molapisane GP, Mahlatji RS, Ngoatje MC, Lindeque MH, Mathebula MW, Mahlangu S, Skosana SV, Mokalapa MJ, Sekgota NN and Matloga JM. 40 years service: Paul Fambe. Steven Ramugondo. &nbsp; Best Support Team: 1. ICT Infrastructure and Systems. 2. Security and Investigation Management. &nbsp; Best Service Delivery team: 1. Community Development Programme. 2. Local Economic Development. &nbsp; Best Innovative Team: 1. HRCD Learnership and Internships. 2. Security and Investigation Management. &nbsp; Best Traditional Council: 1. Dzumeri Traditional Council.