Drift Cars, V-8 Sprints and the smell of burning rubber filled the Polokwane Oval as racers from Limpopo, Gauteng and Mpumalanga competed for the Polokwane Winter Trophy on Saturday. The action provided top class entertainment for the local supporters who filled the stands in anticipation of some exciting racing. The day started off at 14:00 with test laps for the drivers in various classes in which they could prepare their cars for the races ahead. At 18:00 the drivers parade commenced followed by a drifting performance by the Cooper Drifting Team in which they showcased their new Mazda RX-7 drift car. The races commenced and provided the crowd with high quality races and action. During the Super Saloons race two drivers Kobus du Toit and Nico Vorster smashed into the walls on separate occasions, eliminating them from the race. Du Toit sustained no injuries while Vorster broke his knee in two places. In the Ninja Midgets class, Marlie Saaiman took first place while Karin van Staden was the winner of the Rookies category. Stock Rods winner Hennie de Koker was too fast for his opponents while Petrus van Oordt won the 1660 s class. The 2.1 litre modifieds class was dominated by Johnny du Rand with Allas Pienaar the quickest in the Hot Rods. The Sprints class was won by Andries Marx and Juan-dor Nelson was the fastest in the F2 midgets. Rebel cars category winner Nic de Witt left his opponents in dust while Thinus Smith couldn t be caught by the other Super Saloons. The Pinto s class was won by Gavin Botha. Details on the next event are not yet available. Story and photos: THINUS DU TOIT &gt;&gt;thinus@observer.co.za Johhny du Randt waiting in his 2.1 litre car to qualify for the race he later won. Michelle Butler and Leandri Peyper, front, with Lee Kleynhans, Mariska Groenewald and Monika van Zyl, back, are enjoying the day next to the track. Xavier Horn holds on tight to the inside line of the track in order to outrun opponent Corn van der Merwe. Elnette Kotze tests her car s acceleration during the Sprints category warm-up races.