More than four decades after the first Volkswagen Golf was seen on South African shores, the seventh generation of this iconic vehicle was launched at Volkswagen Polokwane on Saturday. All models across the line-up are now presented with a new generation, larger, more sophisticated, touch-screen entertainment and information system. The New Golf range includes the Trendline, Comfortline and GTI and d buts a 1,0 TSI engine with 81 kW power output. The 999 cc engine is linked to a six speed manual transmission and claims a combined fuel consumption of 4,8 litres per 100 km. Volkswagen has also strengthened the appeal of the iconic Golf GTI and it now develops 169 kW, an increase of 7 kW from its predecessor. It also boasts a port styled front bumper with C-signature air-curtains and GTI-styled twin pipe exhaust system. All New Golfs feature BlueMotion Technologies such as a stop-start system and a mode for storing braking energy, regenerative braking. They also offer an Electronic Stability Programme (ESP), front, side and curtain air bags with a knee air bag for driver, multi-collision brake systems and air-conditioners. Design modifications include new bumpers front and rear, new halogen headlights with LED daytime running lights or full LED headlights instead of xenon headlights; and new front wings. New wheel designs and body colours complete the exterior update, while fresh trim panels and materials also upgrade the interior. Additional new features include a Blind Spot Monitor with Rear Traffic Alert as well as Adaptive Cruise Control with Front Assist and Autonomous Emergency Braking System. Optional and ordered in conjunction with swivelling tow bar, Trailer Assist including Park Assist helps reverse a trailer or caravan with a weight of up to 1 800 kg into a parking bay or entrance from the street. To operate, the driver simply engages reverse gear and activates the system with a push button. The driving angle and subsequent possible driving angles are displayed on the instrument cluster. All the driver then has to do is operate the accelerator pedal and brake, while the system automatically controls the direction of the car, using Park Assist to move the trailer backwards into the required position. Visit Volkswagen Polokwane at the corner of Nelson Mandela Drive and Grobler Street or contact them on 015 299 8800. Story and photos: MARKI FRANKEN &gt;&gt;marki.observer@gmail.com Percy Funchall, Volkswagen Polokwane Sales Manager, and Million Baloyi, Volkswagen Polokwane Sales Executive, unveil the New Golf GTI. Fresh trim panels and materials upgrade the interior of the New Golf range.