Polokwane Municipality is ready to host the 2017 Annual Mayoral Cycle Race (PAMCR) that is scheduled for 28 May and cyclists that are practising for the event are seen in their colourful cycling attire on roads in the city in the afternoons and weekends. The event has been divided into three categories and will consist of distances of 15 km, 45 km and the ultimate 194 km that will be a real challenge for professionals as well as amateurs. Prizes amounting to over R300 000 will be up for grabs and on-line registrations are accepted on www.polokwanecyclerace.co.za. Walk-in entries can be done at the Civic Centre in Landdros Mar Street on weekdays between 10:00 and 15:00. Registration fees for the 104 km, 45 km and 15 km races are R250, R180 and R100 respectively and the 104 km race will start at 07:00, followed by the 45 km race at 07:15 and finally the 15 km race at 07:30. Mantlako Sebaka, Marketing, Communications and Stakeholder Engagement Manager of the municipality, confirmed that in order to successfully register for participation cyclists must have a valid Cycling South Africa licence that costs R35. This requirement is not applicable to the 15 km fun race. At the launch of the PAMCR that took place at the new Peter Mokaba Stadium recently, Polokwane Executive Mayor Thembi Nkadimeng said that the PAMCR has become the most powerful tool for the city to showcase its integrated rapid public transport vision that is anchored on the rallying call: Building a Better City and Life . Nkadimeng explained that the integrated public transportation system is known as Leeto la Polokwane and seeks to provide high quality, affordable, safe, rapid, reliable and universally accessible service to the people of the city. The name Leeto la Polokwa ne was inspired by the people of Polokwane and comes from the SePedi word leeto that means journey. An efficient public transport system contributes to socio-economic development, which leads to job creation, skills development and improved access to markets. The Polo kwane Annual Mayoral Cycle Race resonates with these ideals, and it also goes a long way to attract tourists to our city, Nkadimeng said. Story: BARRY VILJOEN &gt;&gt;barryv.observer@gmail.com Mantlako Sebaka, Marketing, Communications and Stakeholder Engagement Manager in the Transport Directorate of Polokwane Municipality.