T he exclusive Emperor s Palace in Kempton Park recently played host to the Seeff Annual Regional Achiever Awards where three of Seeff Polokwane s agents received Achiever Awards for making more than R20 million in sales in 2016. Seeff s Northern Region comprises Mauritius, Swaziland and all of South Africa except for the Cape Region and Namibia, according to Seeff Polokwane co-owner, Karien Jordaan. This means that Seeff Polokwane s agents compete against agents that work in high priced areas like Sandton, Houghton and Ballito. Jordaan won the Runner-up Licensee Award, a coup considering that she only became a licensee in January and already kicked dust in other licensees eyes. However, she is no stranger to accolades. When she started at Seeff in 2014, she won the national Rookie of the Year Award, the next year she was named Agent of the Year in the Northern Region and came fifth overall nationally. My aim is to equip all our agents to win achiever awards. One group completed the high level training at the Seeff Academy, while the following group will start their training soon, she says adding that Seeff Polokwane is different from many other property agencies because they focus on hiring agents with professional qualifications relevant to the industry. Our professional team boasts two professional valuers, a town planner and a civil engineer. This means that we offer extra services to clients that not many can do. Annelise Booysen was named third best seller in the Northern Region. Jordaan says Booysen is a top agent, because she always offers top service. Although she has a diploma in civil engineering, she found her passion here at Seeff. Booysen adds that she will never work for another company again. Seeff Polokwane is different from other agencies. We do everything with prayer and our main goal is never making money, but rather building on our integrity and being there for one another, even in our personal lives. Jordaan says Booysen s ability to win people over is a strength. She used to work in the platinum mining industry and many of her clients stem from those days. Sunet Scheepers won the award for being the eighth best seller in the Northern Region. She is well qualified and busy with the National Qualification Framework level 5 Real Estate Course. She has been an agent at Seeff Polokwane for eight years and has an excellent track record with many returning clients. She works hard, has many returning clients and offers exceptional service at all times. That is why she is reaping the rewards now, Jordaan says of Scheepers achievement. Story: MARKI FRANKEN &gt;&gt;marki.observer@gmail.com &nbsp;