The Limpopo High Court sentenced serial rapist Lucas Malokolle Phalane to life behind bars plus an additional 165 years imprisonment after being convicted of 25 counts ranging from rape, robbery with aggravated circumstances as well as house robbery on Friday. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) Limpopo s Regional Spokesperson Mashudu Malabi-Dzhangi said during trial the court heard that Phalane and his unidentified accomplice roamed around the communities of Burgersfort, Lenyenye and Tzaneen during the night and broke into the houses of their rape victims. Sixteen women raped Since 2011 to March 2016 the accused raped 16 women aged between 13 and 45. He used a firearm or a knife to coerce the complainants to submit. He also robbed his victims of cash, jewellery and cell phones. The accused was finally arrested at Angelo squatter camp in Boksburg, Gauteng after one of the complainants recognised him from a Police identikit, Malabi-Dzhangi said. He was sentenced to life imprisonment for rape involving a minor and 15 years imprisonment for each of the 11 counts of rape and robbery involving adult victims. The court also ordered that Phalane be deemed unfit to possess a firearm and that his name be registered in the national register of sex offenders. In a separate case Malabi-Dzhangi welcomed the sentencing of Sakkie Marutle Malaza and Manabeng Michael Makua to 18 years imprisonment by the Modimolle Regional Court for the unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition and the illegal hunting of protected animals on Friday. On 27 February 2013 the Police reacted to information of a possible rhino poaching incident at Mabalingwe Game Farm outside Bela-Bela. Police officers spotted Malaza and two others entering Mabalingwe property through a fence. They approached and arrested Malaza while the two others managed to escape leaving behind an axe and a .300 rifle. Thorough investigations later led to the arrest of Makua in Modimolle as well as the recovery of several rounds of live ammunition in his house in Boschkop, Malabi-Dzhangi said. Makua alleged during the trial that he had kept ammunition on behalf of Malaza and denied being part of the group of poachers. He also alleged to have been framed by Police but the court rejected his version. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com