Learners in Vuwani are finally back in school after residents agreed to President Jacob Zuma s decision that the area should be serviced by the Vhembe District Municipality in the interim while a solution to the demarcation issue is being sought. This decision announced on Sunday during Zuma s visit to the area was welcomed with both hands although Pro-Makhado Demarcation Task Team Representative, Arnold Mulaudzi outlined that residents are still intent on applying to the Municipal Demarcation Board (MDB) in 2020 for the area to be serviced by Makhado Local Municipality. Mulaudzi further confirmed that everything was back to normal and learners are attending school. We agreed that we will make an application when the redetermination of municipal boundaries window opens in 2020 after the general elections, he explained. Provincial Police Spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe said the situation in Vuwani remained calm on Sunday night as the police continued patrolling the area. He further said four people, aged between 18 and 31, were arrested for public violence after six vehicles, one of them belonging to the police, were damaged. This happened immediately after the adjournment of a community gathering at Nandoni Sports Field on Sunday. Three of the vehicles belong to the SABC and two are privately owned. All these vehicles had their windows smashed by the rampant protesters who also overturned and pelted four VIP toilets with stones, explained Ngoepe. He added that the police immediately brought the situation under control and arrested the four suspects. Police will continue monitoring the area. The Department of Education also welcomed the decision taken by the community leaders of Vuwani area to allow learning and teaching to resume. Departmental Spokesperson Naledzani Rasila said all learners and teachers are urged to be at schools and start working. He further said the department and learners themselves cannot afford to lose any more time. Zuma met with community leaders and stakeholders to whom he emphasised the importance of learners going back to school as soon as possible. Zuma, in a statement issued on Monday, reportedly said: The engagement has been a success. We are pleased that the community members have agreed to the re-opening of schools. Schools and other essential services should not be affected. Children should learn and other services must be delivered until we find a permanent solution. This does not mean that the new local municipality, Lim345 is disestablished. Zuma said the next step will have to include all stakeholders in the district, including those who support the new municipality and those who call for its disestablishment. Provincial Spokesperson Phuti Seloba said they were glad that things were back to normal and that the national and provincial task teams will work closely with residents. Story: ENDY SENYATSI &gt;&gt;endy@observer.co.za