A branch of the African National Congress (ANC) in Polokwane has opened itself to criticism for perceived instigation of racial tension in its condemning of the unfortunate demonstration of a racist culture by one of the city s predominant learning institutions and an adjacent posh security estate. In a media statement &#8211; of which a copy was made available to Polokwane Observer by a source the ANC s Ike Maphoto branch in Ward 21, Polokwane targets Laerskool Pietersburg-Oos and Bendor Village Association for its display of a so-called racist culture and furnishes examples of such alleged conduct. It was learnt that the broad-brimmed circulation of the media statement, issued on behalf of the branch executive and affiliated leagues, has caused pandemonium among the parent community of the primary school. The institution is being accused of continuous exclusion of the community of Ward 21 from using facilities and academic activities, currently refusing application forms for black children in and around the ward, with the majority of them being turned away because the school only accepts Afrikaans-speaking children . In the statement the branch alludes to the fact that it has tried to open engagement with the principal and SGB, without success. It further called on all community members around Ward 21 to collect and submit application forms before 31 May 2017 for their kids and on the Department of Education to intervene in the matter. In further giving a racial connotation to the objections by Bendor Village Association against a fast food franchise on their doorstep in future, the branch dismissed their version of argument and said it viewed the refusal for the establishment of the franchise in the ward as a direct rejection of job creation opportunities for their people and said it should accept that Bendor and Ster Park now catered for all classes. In the last 20 years of our democracy, the ANC has created opportunities for all races as outlined in the Constitution of the Republic. The Bendor Village Association failed to accept that the ward is now integrated with all races. The branch lastly called on the community of Bendor and Ster Park to attend a community meeting to discuss the two issues and also on the establishment of a municipal ward committee tonight (Thursday). ANC Youth League view The Chairperson of the ANC Youth League in the Ike Maphoto branch, Mahlatse Kobe, told Polokwane Observer that the school had not been transformed as yet and that Afrikaans was the only medium of teaching used. The same situation prevailed across the city, but the statement only contained reference to the one school situated within the same ward, he indicated. According to him they had met with the school principal almost two weeks back that he was very arrogant and unwilling to try to advise them on how to approach the matter and informed them that the school could not accommodate more learners. The matter had already been taken up with the Department of Education and another meeting was supposed to follow, he said. Depending on what happened after next Wednesday they would take further action, Kobe said and made it clear that the youth league would approach it with aggression. Turning to the part of the statement pertaining to objections against the proposed development opposite Bendor Village, Kobe said that during their consultations they have been informed that the minority of black residents were outnumbered by the majority of white residents voting against the proposed development in the past. Statement by school governing body Laerskool Pietersburg-Oos Principal Gideon Pelzer indicated that he could not comment. Instead a statement by SGB Chairperson Andri Weyer was forwarded and is quoted verbatim. Allegations that Laerskool Pietersburg-Oos is using its language and entrance policy to discriminate against children of specific racial groups are the result of the Provincial Department of Education s inability to plan in advance. A local branch of the ANC Youth League in Polokwane is accusing Oosskool of racism because of the fact that the school is an Afrikaans single-medium school, according to its language policy. Oosskool is one of merely two Afrikaans primary schools in Polokwane and the school is bursting at its seams. The school was also under pressure of the local ANC and the Limpopo Department of Education last year to provide double-medium tuition. The problem is that there are not enough primary schools in the vicinity. All the other primary schools in the vicinity are also full. The department is now trying to address the problem by forcing Oosskool to provide double medium tuition. A school s language and entrance policy is the responsibility of that school s governing body, as confirmed by court in the directive Ermelo verdict in 2009. Various similar court cases also confirmed that Government is not allowed to intervene with these rights of the school governing body. Ancyl threat disturbing The ANC Youth League threat that immeasurable violence will be used if black learners are not admitted to the school is especially disturbing. It is utterly irresponsible to make statements like that, especially where primary school learners are involved. The interests of the children are priority to the governing body and safety tops the list. Oosskool welcomes any learner that wants to be educated in Afrikaans. Diversity is a characteristic of the South African community and the protection of multilingualism forms part hereof. Oosskool will continue serving the diverse group of Afrikaans speakers in the province by means of quality tuition in a safe environment. Bendor Village Association comment In his response the recently elected Chairperson of Bendor Village Association, Charalambos Kourtoumbellides referred to the sub-committee responsible for opposing the establishment of a drive-through outlet opposite the road being steered by a black female resident. He described the assumption of the ANC s Ike Maphoto branch that the minority of black residents was outvoted on the issue by the white residents as quite absurd, stressing that the only person not opposed to the intended business operation on their doorstep was a white male resident. Kourtoumbellides continued to explain that the residents were emphatically opposed to any business in that area and not specifically against the drive-through outlet, adding that the proposed business development would further compound traffic congestion and that any new business node would be against the town planning scheme. He indicated that Bendor Village Association is representative of 500 to 600 residents living within the residential establishment, situated about a block away from the school. Numerous attempts to obtain input from the Bendor Village Association resident steering the drive on behalf of the others were in vain. At the same time Education Department spokesperson Naledzani Rasila was not available when approached for comment and did not respond to the voice message left on his phone. Story: YOLANDE NEL &gt;&gt;observer.yolande@gmail.com