Polokwane City Football Club s 3-1 feat over Golden Arrows in their Premier Soccer League (PSL) match at old Peter Mokaba Stadium last Tuesday has seen them move up to sixth spot in the league. Club Captain, Jabulani Maluleke scored a brace in the first half while upcoming youngster Vusimusi Mngomezulu scored their third goal in the second half of the match. Arrows s goal was scored by their Captain Musa Bilankulu from a penalty spot. Club s Chief Operations Officer, Tincy Tema said they had to win the match in order to cement their position in the top eight bracket. We have set ourselves targets for this season and one of the objectives was to finish the League in the top eight bracket. We are on the brink of making history for ourselves because since we were promoted to the PSL four seasons ago we have never finished in the top eight, we were always fighting relegation. We are doing this for our fans and supporters who have been there for us when we were not playing well. They said they want to see us participating in the MTN 8 Cup next season and we want to fulfil their wish, Tema said. He further attributed the team s good run in the league to hard work put in by both players and the technical team. Nothing beats hard work. You will always reap the fruits of hard work and we are doing that. We had a good pre-season training, we prepared well for this season and what makes us happier is that the players are responding to the tactics of the technical team. Our wish is that they continue with the same performance in the remaining matches, Tema said. In the last remaining matches they will play the embattled Free State Stars, Super Sport United, Kaizer Chiefs and strong PSL title contenders Bidvest Wits and Cape Town City Football Club. Those are tough opponents because they are all fighting different battles and we are also fighting our own. We have got a good squad and the players have proven themselves in previous matches. We have no doubt that they will do well against our opponents, Tema said. Story: Herbert Rachuene &gt;&gt;herbert@mailbox.co.za &nbsp;