If you a need a so-called one-stop shop when it comes to vehicles, Tata Polokwane offers everything you would need from a small hatchback or family sedan to a workhorse and a single or double cab bakkie. A wide range of Tata vehicles will be on show at Mall of the North from 9 to 14 May and people and potential buyers are invited to visit the exhibition where professional sales executives will assist with any questions. When it comes to family vehicles Tata recently introduced the Bolt which represents an attitude of winning and staying ahead and is available in a hatchback or sedan. This attitude is embodied in the new Bolt in all aspects of design, drive and seamless connectivity. It is an enticing combination of stunning design, thrilling performance and exciting technology. It is fitted with technologically advanced features such as a state of the art infotainment system consisting of four speakers, four tweeters, video playback and image viewer via USB. Other noteworthy features in the Bolt include fog lights, daytime running lights, LED indicators, AUX and Bluetooth connectivity, incoming SMS notifications and read outs, as well as possessing a multi-function steering wheel with audio controls. The feature-packed Bolt is equipped with all your safety requirements, including Anti-lock Braking System (ABS), Electronic Brake-force Distribution (EBD), corner stability control and dual airbags. The Bolt is also available in five exciting colours. Also available is the Indica and ever since its launch in India, the Indica has set high standards for luxurious interior space and value for money. The interior provides comfort and convenience and is evident in the many appealing features such as power steering for easy handling and control, air conditioning and remote release for tailgate and fuel filler cap. If there is hard labour to be done Tata also caters for it by stocking some of the best workhorses on the market. From the Super Ace which are designed to address business requirements to the 207 Di Turbo Worker capable of doing all the hard work. The Super Ace measures at 2,63 m in length and is among the longest one-ton pick-ups in the country. The dropside body has a deck height of only 60 cm which makes loading and unloading easy. The load body itself is 1,5 m wide, providing a large load area of 3,8 m . The Xenon range comes in single or double cab which not makes it another hard worker in in Tata s vehicle line-up but also a comfortable family vehicle capable of concurring any terrain. With luxurious features such as electric windows, power steering, navigation and Bluetooth you will have an enjoyable experience every time you sit behind the wheel. With safety in mind, the Xenon includes features such as dual front airbags, Anti-lock Braking System (ABS), a collapsible steering column, limited slip differential and remote central locking with an engine immobiliser. For more information visit Tata Polokwane at 102 Tagore Street, Nirvana or contact the sales team on 015 292 9300. Story: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com The Bolt is perfect for city cruising. The Indica sets high standards when it comes to luxury. The 207 Di Turbo Worker gets hard work done easily.