Volkswagen Commercial Polokwane launched the new Amarok powered by a V6 engine on Saturday. Polokwane Observer put the vehicle through the test and potential clients also had the opportunity to get behind the wheel of the new addition as well as the 2.0-litre Amarok. The new V6 is described as a fancy and luxurious SUV only with a load bin because the interior offers comfort and all the bells and whistles of a German luxury vehicle. It is no wonder the Amarok finished first in the CAR magazine 2017 Double Cab Shootout most anticipated test recently. The new V6 Highline Plus features a new interior and exterior design. The exterior welcomed a new styling bar, new front design and alloy wheels of up to 20 inches. The radiator grille with two double chrome strips and six vertical chrome trims, bi-xenon headlights with LED daytime running lights, colour-coded front bumper and door handles, tinted tail lights and rear bumper with built-in step are feature that immediately draws attention. The interior is spacious with leather upholstery, chrome trim, 12-way electrical adjustment driver seat, front heated seats, four 12 volt sockets, air conditioning, and cruise control. The infotainment system offers voice control to operate the telephone, navigations system and audio functions while the radio system offers of a 16,5 cm colour display, touchscreen with proximity sensors, voice control, MP3 and App-Connect function. The 3.0-litre V6 diesel engine is the only bakkie in its class with an 8-speed automatic gearbox and is powerful like no other. The 165 kW six cylinder engine has more than enough reserves even in the most demanding situations. Additional power comes from the overboost function, which briefly increases the performance of the engine by up to 180 kW depending on the driving situation. The Amarok features several systems such as ParkPilot which emits audible warnings when obstacles are detected in front of or behind the vehicle when parking and a rear-view camera. The fog lights with integrated static turning light ensures optimal visibility in poor weather conditions while the rear-view mirror automatically adjusts if the headlights of a vehicle behind is too bright. When going off-road the 4MOTION system is ready to assist. A transfer case enables the front wheels to be electrically engaged and disengaged while driving. On steep inclines or longer stretches of gravel an additional reduction gear can also be activated. The permanent 4&#215;4 drive system with self-locking Torsen central differential is unique in the bakkie segment and provides a balanced 40:60 distribution for all on- and off-road tasks. For more details or to view the new Amarok V6 visit Volkswagen Commercial on the corner of Nelson Mandela Drive and Grobler Street or call them on 015 299 8800. Story and photos: RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com Volkswagen Commercial Sales Manager Herman Koelman, right, congratulates client Sakkie Labuschagne on his purchase of the new Amarok.