The distinct racket of a chopper overhead was drawing attention to crime-busting Operation Fiela-2 conducted in Polokwa ne s city centre on Friday. Several successes were achieved early Friday morning during the operation where Police were encountered in Suid Street where law enforcers hit on homeless dwellers under a bridge at the intersection with the main street. The operation was led by Acting Cluster Commander Dikeledi Mangena and composed of the the Crime Prevention Unit, Detectives Unit, Vehicle Investigation Services, Mounted Unit, K9 Unit, Operational Response Services, Department of Home Affairs, Community Safety Forum and the departmental and municipal traffic officials. The operation focussed on all crime infested areas within Polokwane and Westenburg. Provincial Police Spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe said 2 093 people and 291 vehicles were searched, one person was arrested for public drinking, 12 illegal migrants were arrested, four were arrested for possession of dagga, three suspects were arrested for possession of suspected stolen properties, 22 534 summons were issued and 36 drivers were fined for traffic offences. Police also used the opportunity to distribute 1 000 pamphlets containing anti-corruption safety tips. Meanwhile Police also embarked on a clean-up operation which focussed on areas such as Seshego, Westenburg, Mankweng, Rakgwadi, Mecklenburg, Lephalale, Jane Furse, Lebowakgomo, Ritavi, Mahwelereng, Orichstad, Dennilton, Letsitele, Nebo, Giyani, Bela-Bela, Mokopane, Thohoyandou and Tshilwavusiku on the weekend. A total of 259 suspects aged between 19 and 53 were arrested of which 42 are illegal migrants, according to Ngoepe. He added that suspects were arrested on charges of among other burglary, assault, carjacking, rape, malicious damage to property, possession of dagga and firearms and drunken driving. Story &amp; photos: YOLANDE NEL &gt;&gt;observer.yolande@gmail.com RC Myburgh &gt;&gt;rc.observer@gmail.com Operation Fiela-2 attracts attention in the city centre. (Photo: Yolande Nel) Operation Fiela-2 attracts attention in the city centre. (Photo: Yolande Nel)