Following 623 cases of malaria reported at Donald Fraser Hospital in Vhembe since 24 April, Health MEC Phophi Ramathuba conducted a visit to the hospital on Tuesday to monitor the situation and support patients. Departmental Spokesperson Derick Kganyago said the visit was part of continued efforts to rapidly respond to reported malaria cases. He said increased numbers of cases were also reported at Siloam, Malamulele and Nkhensani hospitals. Ramathuba reportedly also met with Malamulele Hospital s Malaria Outbreak team to come up with ways to deal with the cases. Kganyago said the high rate of malaria cases might be ascribed to affected communities not responding to the call by the department for residents in malaria risk areas to take precautions. We have learned that some communities chased away health teams deployed to help deal with the issue because of the misconception regarding antimalarial supplies. We have been told that some residents don t want to use antimalarial vaccine because they claim that it does not cure but rather cause malaria. There are some areas that claim that they did not receive the vaccine and task teams will visit such areas to help residents prevent the disease, he explained. He further said the department has activated teams in all affected facilities to deal with the increased number of cases. Supplies to help treat malaria cases are currently being distributed to the facilities. He added that Limpopo is a malaria en de mic province, with malaria transmission pre valent between the months of October and middle April. A high number of cases reported over the past week from North Eastern parts of the province. Community leaders came on board and are keen to assist the department in fighting the disease. Citizens should rest assured that the department will do everything in its power to deal with malaria cases. People are encouraged to report to their closest health facility if they experience symptoms. Story: ENDY SENYATSI &gt;&gt;endy@observer.co.za