During their annual Charity Golf Day at the Polokwane Gholf Club last Thursday, the Rotary Club of Pietersburg 100 raised an amount of nearly R100 000 towards Corporate Social Investement project Khomotso Drop-In Centre in Solomondale, Ons Tuiste Old Age Home and Vision of Hope Polokwane through green fees, sponsored prizes and donations. A total of 96 players from various companies all over the province met at the Polokwa ne Gholf Club to tee off for a day filled with team spirit and fun as teams competed in a better-ball format to raise funds for the three charities. The funds will be distributed between the charities accordingly. Joining the Rotary Club for the day was exchange student Otavio Osorio from Araras, Brazil who received a golfing lesson from local Professional Golfer s Association golf coach, Shaun Mouton. The day was closed by a brief prize giving where Andries du Plessis and Andr Swart walked away as overall winners with 49 points. Christo van der Merwe had the longest drive on hole 1, nearest to the green on hole 14 was Dyane Viljoen. Desi Earle was nearest to the pin on hole 4 while Danie Henning got closest to the 8th pin. On hole 11, Rob Anderson was the nearest to the pin and on hole 16 Jandr Britz got the closest. Story: THINUS DU TOIT &gt;&gt;thinus@observer.co.za Photos: BARRY VILJOEN &gt;&gt;barryv@observer.co.za and THINUS DU TOIT &gt;&gt;thinus@observer.co.za Rian Rick and Helgard Muller from Platinum Spar Polokwane discuss their situation on the green. Henso Coetzee from BB Polokwane UD Trucks tries to escape from the sand during the Rotary Club of Pietersburg 100 s Annual Charity Golf Day held at the Polokwane Golf club last Thursday. Gerhard Saaiman replaces his marker with his ball on the green of the first hole. Air Compressor and Mining Services Gail Wynne digs her ball out of the sand. Zac Meyer judges the angle of the green. Hoping for the best, Arnold Venter blasts his ball out of the bunker. Umesh Madhav follows his ball after putting it. Peter Mockford won the bid for the Big Boy 150 motorcycle. Winner of the raffle, Hein Viljoen, with Vermeulen. &nbsp;