In exactly ten days time the streets in and around the city will be abuzz with activity as the city hosts the Polokwane Annual Mayoral Cycle Race (PAMCR), which promises to be a most entertaining and memorable family event. Polokwane Executive Mayor Thembi Nkadimeng has assured that all the stops have been pulled to ensure the success of the event that is scheduled for Sunday 28 May at the old Peter Mokaba Stadium. Nkadimeng says that since its inception in 2014, this flagship event has brought together more than 7 000 cyclists from all over the country to take part in what has grown to be one of Polokwane s premier sporting events. As a build up to the event, the city has donated bicycles to a number of schools not only to promote a culture of cycling in the community, but also to alleviate the plight of scores of learners who have to walk several kilometres a day in order to get to school. I strongly believe that through cycling, our people can enjoy a healthier lifestyle and as such, it should be accessible to all members of society, regardless of their financial status. There should be no financial barriers to cycling. Indeed, there should be no financial barriers to a healthy lifestyle. This initiative is close to my heart for it speaks to the core of what Building a Better City and Life entails, Nkadimeng reckons. The municipality founded the cycle race in 2014 to, among other things, encourage members of our community to embrace an active, healthy lifestyle and general wellness and for the younger generation to turn professional. PAMCR has grown over the years to provide family friendly activities for people of all ages and abilities. It does not discriminate on anyone s ability, but embraces people s differences and preferences, Nkadimeng explains. This year s event has attracted R300 000 in prize money and Nkadimeng expects an increased number of participants from across the country to join local cyclists in a fun filled atmosphere that includes an array of entertainment, children s activities, music and dance, DJs and food stalls. A pump track will also be installed at the venue for young and old non-riders to play around and hone their cycling skills. Walk-in entries can be done at the Civic Centre in Landdros Mar Street during weekdays between 10:00 and 15:00 and online entries are accepted on http://www.cycleevents.co.za. &nbsp;