The Provincial Government underspent its 2016/17 adjusted budget by R1,3 billion, representing 2,2% of the total amount of R59 billion that was available to provide services and infrastructure. This was revealed during a post-Exco media briefing at Mowaneng on Tuesday, when Provincial Government Spokesperson Phuti Seloba outlined some of the resolutions taken during the Provincial Government Executive Committee (Exco) meeting that held last Wednesday. Seloba reported that R57,7 billion, representing 97,8% of the budget, had been spent by 31 March. The highest spending departments were Health with 98,6% and Social Development with 98,2% of their budgets. The payment rate for invoices for all departments during March was 90,05%. In the Department of Health, some payments for invoices older than 30 days were not made by 31 March due to insufficient budget. Stabilisation of LIM345 Municipality The Exco directed that concerted efforts be made to assist the LIM345 Municipality to service the communities. The Department of Cooperative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs should assist the municipality to ensure that its satellite offices in Vuwani are re-opened and that concerns about the non-action of the Police to apprehend perpetrators of violence in the area. Infrastructure support to municipalities The Exco noted that the programme has been designed to maximise the use of Municipal Infrastructure Grants and that progress has been made with the development of a project charter for selected municipalities. The launch of the Limpopo Treasury Infrastructure Support Programme Phase 2 that aims to optimise MIG performance, was approved. Limpopo Provincial Commercialisation Policy The Exco approved the launch of the Limpopo Provincial Commercialisation Policy for implementation in the provincial game reserves. The policy aims to improve operational efficiency and increase management capacity and service delivery. It will also ensure correct resource allocation between reserves with significant biodiversity importance and those with viable commercial value. Appointment of Gateway Airport Authority Limited (Gaal) Board New members of the Board of Gaal were appointed with effect from 1 May and will serve for a term of three years. Story: BARRY VILJOEN &gt;&gt;barryv.observer@gmail.com