The Provincial Government Executive Committee (Exco) has instructed the Justice Crime Prevention and Security Cluster to look into the issue of abduction of young girls in the province and nationally and report back to the committee at the next Exco meeting. Speaking during the post-exco media briefing at Mowaneng last Thursday, Provincial Government Spokesperson Phuti Seloba outlined some of the resolutions taken during the Exco meeting held the previous day. He said the committee had received a verbal report on the matter. It was reported that the state of abduction of young girls as reported in the media was a source of concern. He said they were not sure how many girls had been abducted in Limpopo, but emphasised that they cannot fold their arms and let the matter slip through their fingers. Our view as Provincial Government is that the matter should be dealt with as soon as possible and perpetrators should be brought to book. Gauteng is mostly affected at this stage. Citizens should join forces with Provincial Government to ensure that this crisis ends. Seloba blamed the abductions on ritual killings and outlined that pastors and traditional healers who use human body parts should be punished. He also emphasised that initiation schools curriculum should be strengthened for young boys to learn to respect women. Back to Basics Action Plan for 2017/18: The Exco has approved the Provincial Back to Basics (B2B) Action Plan for the 2017/18 financial year. The plan is an approach to make municipalities more functional by ensuring that they have and maintain basic tools, systems and processes to render services to communities in a sustainable manner. B2B is anchored on five pillars; service delivery, sound financial management, institutional and municipal administrative capacity, public participation and good governance. The Department of Cooperative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs (Coghsta) will monitor the implementation of the plan in collaboration with B2B structures. Economic Cluster Programme of Action (POA) 2017/18: The Executive Council approved the Economic Sector Cluster Programme of Action for 2017/18. The Economic Sector Cluster POA consists of the key programmes that will be implemented in the 2017/18 financial year in support of decent employment through inclusive economic growth; an efficient, competitive and responsive economic infrastructure network; vibrant, equitable and sustainable rural communities contributing towards food security for all. Environmental assets and natural resources that are well protected and continually enhanced; Medium Term Strategic Framework (MTSF) Priority on Speeding up growth and transforming the economy to create decent work and sustainable livelihoods; MTSF Priority on Massive programme to build economic and social infrastructure; MTSF Priority on Comprehensive rural development strategy linked to land and agrarian reform. Stabilisation of Lim345 Municipality: The Executive Council approved the programme of action to do a thorough consultation programme with all the stakeholders in Lim345 on the intervention model that could see other parts of Lim345 receiving service from the Vhembe District Municipality. This will be an all-inclusive process. Story: ENDY SENYATSI &gt;&gt;endy@observer.co.za